Historical Dictionary of
Feminist Philosophy

Catherine Villanueva Gardner

The Scarecrow Press

HISTORICAL DICTIONARIES OF RELIGIONS,
PHILOSOPHIES, AND MOVEMENTS
Jon Woronoff, Series Editor
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Buddhism, by Charles S. Prebish, 1993
Mormonism, by Davis Bitton, 1994. Out of print. See No. 32.
Ecumenical Christianity, by Ans Joachim van der Bent, 1994
Terrorism, by Sean Anderson and Stephen Sloan, 1995. Out of print. See No.
41.
Sikhism, by W. H. McLeod, 1995. Out of print. See No. 59.
Feminism, by Janet K. Boles and Diane Long Hoeveler, 1995. Out of print. See
No. 52.
Olympic Movement, by Ian Buchanan and Bill Mallon, 1995. Out of print. See
No. 39.
Methodism, by Charles Yrigoyen Jr. and Susan E. Warrick, 1996. Out of Print.
See No. 57.
Orthodox Church, by Michael Prokurat, Alexander Golitzin, and Michael D.
Peterson, 1996
Organized Labor, by James C. Docherty, 1996. Out of print. See No. 50.
Civil Rights Movement, by Ralph E. Luker, 1997
Catholicism, by William J. Collinge, 1997
Hinduism, by Bruce M. Sullivan, 1997
North American Environmentalism, by Edward R. Wells and Alan M.
Schwartz, 1997
Welfare State, by Bent Greve, 1998. Out of print. See No. 63.
Socialism, by James C. Docherty, 1997
Bahá’ı́ Faith, by Hugh C. Adamson and Philip Hainsworth, 1998
Taoism, by Julian F. Pas in cooperation with Man Kam Leung, 1998
Judaism, by Norman Solomon, 1998
Green Movement, by Elim Papadakis, 1998
Nietzscheanism, by Carol Diethe, 1999
Gay Liberation Movement, by Ronald J. Hunt, 1999
Islamic Fundamentalist Movements in the Arab World, Iran, and Turkey, by
Ahmad S. Moussalli, 1999
Reformed Churches, by Robert Benedetto, Darrell L. Guder, and Donald K.
McKim, 1999
Baptists, by William H. Brackney, 1999
Cooperative Movement, by Jack Shaffer, 1999
Reformation and Counter-Reformation, by Hans J. Hillerbrand, 2000
Shakers, by Holley Gene Dufﬁeld, 2000
United States Political Parties, by Harold F. Bass Jr., 2000
Heidegger’s Philosophy, by Alfred Denker, 2000

31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.

Zionism, by Rafael Medoff and Chaim I. Waxman, 2000
Mormonism, 2nd ed., by Davis Bitton, 2000
Kierkegaard’s Philosophy, by Julia Watkin, 2001
Hegelian Philosophy, by John W. Burbidge, 2001
Lutheranism, by Günther Gassmann in cooperation with Duane H. Larson and
Mark W. Oldenburg, 2001
Holiness Movement, by William Kostlevy, 2001
Islam, by Ludwig W. Adamec, 2001
Shinto, by Stuart D. B. Picken, 2002
Olympic Movement, 2nd ed., by Ian Buchanan and Bill Mallon, 2001. Out of
Print. See No. 61.
Slavery and Abolition, by Martin A. Klein, 2002
Terrorism, 2nd ed., by Sean Anderson and Stephen Sloan, 2002
New Religious Movements, by George D. Chryssides, 2001
Prophets in Islam and Judaism, by Scott B. Noegel and Brannon M. Wheeler,
2002
The Friends (Quakers), by Margery Post Abbott, Mary Ellen Chijioke, Pink
Dandelion, and John William Oliver, Jr., 2003
Lesbian Liberation Movement: Still the Rage, JoAnne Myers, 2003
Descartes and Cartesian Philosophy, by Roger Ariew, Dennis Des Chene,
Douglas M. Jesseph, Tad M. Schmaltz, and Theo Verbeek, 2003
Witchcraft, by Michael D. Bailey, 2003
Unitarian Universalism, by Mark W. Harris, 2004
New Age Movements, by Michael York, 2004
Organized Labor, 2nd ed., by James C. Docherty, 2004
Utopianism, by James M. Morris and Andrea L. Kross, 2004
Feminism, 2nd ed., by Janet K. Boles and Diane Long Hoeveler, 2004
Jainism, by Kristi L. Wiley, 2004
Wittgenstein’s Philosophy, by Duncan Richter, 2004
Schopenhauer’s Philosophy, by David E. Cartwright, 2005
Seventh-day Adventists, by Gary Land, 2005
Methodism, 2nd ed., by Charles Yrigoyen, Jr. and Susan Warrick, 2005
Suﬁsm, by John Renard, 2005
Sikhism, 2nd ed., by W. H. McLeod, 2005
Kant and Kantianism, by Helmut Holzhey and Vilem Mudroch, 2005
Olympic Movement, 3rd ed., by Bill Mallon with Ian Buchanan, 2006
Anglicanism, by Colin Buchanan, 2006
Welfare State, 2nd ed., by Bent Greve, 2006
Feminist Philosophy, by Catherine Villanueva Gardner, 2006
Logic, by Harry J. Gensler, 2006

Historical Dictionary
of Feminist Philosophy

Catherine Villanueva Gardner

Historical Dictionaries of Religions, Philosophies,
and Movements, No. 64

The Scarecrow Press, Inc.
Lanham, Maryland • Toronto • Oxford
2006

SCARECROW PRESS, INC.
Published in the United States of America
by Scarecrow Press, Inc.
A wholly owned subsidiary of
The Rowman & Littleﬁeld Publishing Group, Inc.
4501 Forbes Boulevard, Suite 200, Lanham, Maryland 20706
www.scarecrowpress.com
PO Box 317
Oxford
OX2 9RU, UK
Copyright  2006 by Catherine Villanueva Gardner
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise,
without the prior permission of the publisher.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Information Available
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Gardner, Catherine Villanueva.
Historical dictionary of feminist philosophy / Catherine Villanueva Gardner.
p. cm.— (Historical dictionaries of religions, philosophies, and
movements; no. 64) Includes bibliographical references.
ISBN 0-8108-5346-9 (hardcover : alk. paper)
1. Feminist theory—Dictionaries. 2. Feminist theory—History—
Dictionaries. I. Title. II. Series.
HQ1190.G36 2006
108.2⬘03—dc22
2005026561


⬁ The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of

American National Standard for Information Sciences—Permanence of Paper for
Printed Library Materials, ANSI/NISO Z39.48-1992. Manufactured in the United
States of America.

To L.V.

Contents

Editor’s Foreword

Jon Woronoff

ix

Preface

xi

Acknowledgments

xv

Chronology

xvii

Introduction

xxiii

THE DICTIONARY

1

Bibliography

235

About the Author

275

vii

Editor’s Foreword

Although outsiders may sometimes think that philosophy is one of the
less dynamic ﬁelds, solidly rooted in the thought of philosophers of earlier days, that is far from the case. Nothing proves this more emphatically than feminist philosophy, a sector which barely existed a few
short decades ago and which is steadily growing. Unlike other sectors,
it is in some ways narrower, focusing on the situation of women but not
by any means restricted to women philosophers. For the moment, most
of the activity is limited to North America and Europe, but the boundaries are gradually expanding. In other ways, it is much broader, having
something to say about works of many of the canonical philosophers,
sometimes approving, sometimes criticizing, and occasionally appropriating. By now feminist philosophy is busy contributing to virtually
every other branch of philosophy, whether ethics, epistemology, logic,
or language, and also to Marxism, environmentalism, and obviously
feminism.
Historical Dictionary of Feminist Philosophy covers a much longer
span than merely the past few decades. Indeed, the chronology stretches
back to those ancient Greek philosophers who dealt with the relevant
issues tangentially, and on to modern philosophers for whom this is the
primary concern. The dictionary entries therefore include Aristotle and
Plato, and also Descartes and Kant, along with Wollstonecraft, Beauvoir, and Daly among the persons; care, ecofeminism, and racism
among the topics; and dualism, femininity, and universalism among the
concepts. Since this is still a young ﬁeld, the introduction is particularly
helpful for understanding its origins, progress, and future agenda. Finally, the rather extensive bibliography will be most useful for those
who want to know more of the details.
This volume was written by Catherine Villanueva Gardner, whose
earlier education was in the United Kingdom at the University of Leiceix

x •

EDITOR’S FOREWORD

ster and University College of Swansea and who received her Ph.D.
from the University of Virginia. Since then she has taught at the Department of Philosophy of the University of Michigan, Flint, and then the
University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, where she is presently associate professor. Dr. Gardner’s areas of specialization, along with feminist
philosophy, include ethics (especially bioethics) and environmental ethics (especially ecofeminism). Among her writings are several articles
and the book Rediscovering Women Philosophers: Philosophical Genre
and the Boundaries of Philosophy. This spread of interests and experiences on both sides of the Atlantic have allowed her to become familiar
with many different aspects and activities in two major centers of feminist philosophy, while her experience as a teacher and writer enables
her to pass this knowledge along to the expanding circles of potential
readers.
Jon Woronoff
Series Editor

Preface

There is no one reader for the Historical Dictionary of Feminist Philosophy. The intended audience is broad, ranging from the casual reader
who may simply want a speciﬁc term explained, to students wanting
an introduction to the main ideas and roots of feminist philosophy, to
professional philosophers exploring the history and subject matter of
feminist philosophy.
The Historical Dictionary of Feminist Philosophy covers both the
central ﬁgures and ideas from the historical tradition of philosophy and
the central ideas and theories from contemporary feminist philosophy.
The latter area includes topics that have their roots in critical reactions
to, and developments of, the mainstream tradition, such as epistemology or the philosophy of science; it also includes topics that have been
introduced into the philosophical arena through the feminist movement
itself, such as abortion and sexuality. In addition to an account of their
subject matter, the entries on contemporary topics often contain a discussion of the origins and development of these topics.
In deciding which ﬁgures and topics would fall under the admittedly
broad umbrella of feminist philosophy, the aim was to remain as ﬂexible as possible. It would be a mistake to identify feminist philosophy
solely with the intellectual activities that go on within the academic departments of institutions of higher learning. Moreover, given that the
notions of feminism and feminist philosophy have changed over time,
it is important to allow this to be reﬂected in the selection of entries.
The purpose, however, is not to introduce controversial areas of feminist philosophy, nor to overemphasize areas that are not particularly
well established. Moreover, while the feminist political movement
played an important role in directing the goals and subject matter of the
discipline of feminist philosophy, entries related to feminist theory, and
the feminist movement itself, have not dominated the dictionary.
xi

xii •

PREFACE

In terms of the entries on particular philosophical ﬁgures, the dictionary includes speciﬁcally feminist philosophers or proto-feminist philosophers as well as canonical philosophers who have been of interest to
feminist philosophy. It leaves out philosophers of either sex who have
simply discussed the role of women. Basic biographical background on
these individual philosophers is provided, and the commonly used titles
for their works are given. There is enough information to introduce a
ﬁgure to students or readers new to philosophy and to guide them to
ﬁnd further information in other reference works.
Many of the central ﬁgures of the philosophical canon—both male
and female—have been given separate entries because of the amount of
feminist critical work on them. The central male ﬁgures from the canon
have not been included simply because of their apparent sexism. The
series of entries of canonical male philosophers is not a list of history’s
greatest misogynists; rather, it is a discussion of those who have been
given feminist rereadings. Thus this dictionary does not contain an exhaustive list of ﬁgures from the philosophical tradition. This approach
is reﬂected in the bibliography, which gives only the secondary feminist
work on ﬁgures from the philosophical tradition; it does not contain a
listing of the primary works of these ﬁgures.
In a similar vein, the women philosophers from the history of philosophy who have been given separate entries are either those whose own
work qualiﬁes on some level as feminist, or whose work has been the
subject of present-day feminist rereading. The retrieval of forgotten
women philosophers for present-day examination is a feminist project
in itself, but this does not necessarily mean that any female philosopher—by virtue of her sex—is a part of the enterprise of feminist philosophy.
This emphasis on women philosophers means that the chronology
varies from more standard chronologies of historical philosophers.
Fewer male canonical philosophers are included than is usual; instead,
women philosophers, and their major works, are given a prominent
place. This format is intended to reﬂect one of the elements of the feminist philosophical enterprise: canon revision. The criterion for the inclusion of canonical philosophers is whether they are discussed in a
particular entry or entries. The central works of these philosophers are
listed in the chronology; the commonly used title for each of these
works is given.

PREFACE •

xiii

The omission of dates and places of birth for philosophers in the
chronology is due to the fact that, given the relative obscurity of women
philosophers, there are sometimes no records of the dates of their birth
or death. If these facts are available, they are included in the dictionary
itself. The main goal of the chronology is—through the emphasis on
pivotal philosophical works—to reﬂect the intellectual milieux within
which feminist philosophers were writing.
There are relatively few full entries covering contemporary individuals. The few who are included, such as Luce Irigaray and Mary Daly,
were chosen based on the inﬂuence they have had not only on the work
of others, but on the developments of feminist philosophy itself. In
order to enhance the use of the dictionary as a reference tool, there are
also cross-references or brief explanatory entries for contemporary individuals whose work is discussed at length in other entries. The omission of the work of any one individual was not an attempt to judge the
inherent value of that work, nor should it be read as such.
Thus the majority of entries on current feminist philosophy tend to
be on issues, concepts, and arguments, rather than speciﬁc ﬁgures or
their works. An individual’s work that is signiﬁcant or important in
some way has typically become part of the general discourse. Thus the
contribution of this work is usually discussed under a particular topic
area. Many of the entries on particular ideas and issues include a sense
of their changes and developments over time. When these changes and
developments can be clearly linked to the work of a speciﬁc philosopher, she or he has been identiﬁed by name. Even if a philosopher is
not identiﬁed explicitly by name, it should be noted that the separation
of the Bibliography into different subject areas allows for a mode of
citation, and thus allows the reader an ease in identifying and locating
source materials for each entry.
The issue of whether or not to acknowledge explicitly these speciﬁc
contributions of individuals by name is a troubling one for a feminist
philosopher. On the one hand, there has been a history of the philosophical contributions of women being co-opted or unrecognized. On the
other hand, there is a sense that feminist scholarship is a collective enterprise. The contributions of each individual are subsumed into the
larger political and intellectual whole. This is not only appropriate for
the end of achieving feminist philosophy’s political and intellectual
goals, but as a means to that end.

xiv •

PREFACE

Given that much of contemporary feminist philosophy comes out of
the Western tradition in some way, the orientation of the dictionary is
Western. However, where there is identiﬁable feminist work being done
in other traditions and regions, there are entries covering this work.
Also, more weight is given to feminist work coming out of the analytic
tradition, rather than the Continental tradition. This is due to the amount
of work that has been produced in the former area; the role of the dictionary is to report, rather than to make a case for a particular way of
doing philosophy. In the interests of balance, however, the contributions from the Continental tradition have been recognized both as separate entries and within general topic entries.
Feminist philosophical work has been done within all the major subject areas of philosophy, but to varying degrees. There is little feminist
work, for example, in logic, whereas the ﬁeld of feminist ethics has
grown to the point where it has generated its own academic societies
and conferences. Given the relative newness of feminist philosophy as
an academic discipline, it is hard to identify the causes of these variations. It may be that some subject areas are more open to feminist critique and reconstruction, or it may be that some subject areas have been
the focus of feminist philosophical study for a longer time than others.
Thus there is no standard length for the entries. Some entries may seem
relatively short compared to others on perhaps similar or related topics;
this simply reﬂects the different amounts of work produced on these
topics.
The last point to note is that there is a certain amount of overlap between some of the entries, usually in entries on subﬁelds within philosophy such as epistemology or philosophy of science. This reﬂects the
integrated nature of feminist philosophy. Despite the variety of approaches, there are some important cohesive aspects. Moreover, it is
often typical that feminist philosophical criticism within its subﬁelds
follows a common pattern. This reﬂects a certain commonality of political and philosophical goals among the different feminist philosophical
approaches and perspectives: it reﬂects the feminist philosophical enterprise itself.

Acknowledgments

I would like to thank all of those people who encouraged me while I
was working on this project: Luis Villanueva, Mike Bennett, Diane Barense, and Rick Hogan.
I would also like to thank Jon Woronoff, series editor, for his help
and patience throughout the process.

xv

Chronology

ca. 500–400 BCE Early women Pythagoreans: Themistoclea,
Theano, Arignote, Myia, and Damo.
399 BCE Death of Socrates.
ca. 300–100 BCE Late women Pythagoreans: Aesara of Lucania, Phintys of Sparta, Perictione I, Theano II, and Perictione II.
347 BCE Death of Plato.
322 BCE Death of Aristotle.
413–427 Augustine of Hippo writes On the City of God.
430 28 August: Death of Augustine of Hippo.
ca. 1141–1151 Hildegard of Bingen works on Scivias.
1179 17 September: Death of Hildegard of Bingen.
1259–1264 Thomas Aquinas writes Summa contra Gentiles.
1265–1273 Thomas Aquinas writes Summa Theologica.
1274 7 March: Death of Thomas Aquinas.
1405 Christine de Pizan writes The Book of the City of Ladies.
ca. 1430 Death of Christine de Pizan.
1620 Francis Bacon publishes Novum Organum.
1622 Marie le Jars de Gournay publishes The Equality of Men and
Women.
1626 Marie le Jars de Gournay publishes Complaints of Women. 9
April: Death of Francis Bacon.
xvii

xviii •

CHRONOLOGY

1641 René Descartes publishes Meditations on First Philosophy.
1645 13 July: Death of Marie le Jars de Gournay.
1650 11 February: Death of René Descartes.
1651 Thomas Hobbes publishes Leviathan.
1659 Anna Maria van Schurman publishes The Learned Maid; or,
Whether a Maid May Be a Scholar in English.
1666 Margaret Cavendish publishes Observations upon Experimental
Philosophy.
1670 Benedict (Baruch) de Spinoza publishes Tractatus TheologicoPoliticus.
1673 Bathsua Pell Makin writes An Essay to Revive the Antient Education of Gentlewomen, In Religion, Manners, Arts & Tongues. 15 December: Death of Margaret Cavendish.
ca. 1675 Death of Bathsua Pell Makin.
1677 21 February: Death of Benedict de Spinoza.
1678 Death of Anna Maria van Schurman.
1679 23 February: Death of Anne Finch Conway. 4 December:
Death of Thomas Hobbes.
1680 8 February: Death of Elisabeth of Bohemia, Princess Palatine.
1690 Anne Finch Conway’s The Principles of the Most Ancient and
Modern Philosophy published posthumously. John Locke publishes
Two Treatises of Government.
1691 Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz writes Respuesta.
1694 Mary Astell publishes part one of A Serious Proposal to the Ladies for the Advancement of Their True and Greatest Interest.
1695 Gottfried Leibniz publishes The New System. 17 April: Death
of Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz.
1696 Damaris Cudworth Masham publishes A Discourse Concerning
the Love of God.

CHRONOLOGY •

xix

1697 Mary Astell publishes part two of A Serious Proposal to the Ladies for the Advancement of Their True and Greatest Interest.
1704 28 October: Death of John Locke.
1705 Damaris Cudworth Masham publishes Occasional Thoughts in
Reference to a Virtuous or Christian Life.
1708 20 April: Death of Damaris Cudworth Masham.
1716 14 November: Death of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz.
1731 9 May: Death of Mary Astell.
1739 Sophia publishes Woman Not Inferior to Man or, A Short and
Modest Vindication of the Natural Right of the Fair Sex to a Perfect
Equality of Power, Dignity, and Esteem.
1739–1740 David Hume publishes A Treatise of Human Nature.
1762 Jean-Jacques Rousseau publishes The Social Contract.
1776 25 August: Death of David Hume.
1778 2 July: Death of Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
1785 Immanuel Kant publishes The Groundwork of the Metaphysics
of Morals.
1790 Catharine Macaulay publishes Letters on Education with Observations on Religious and Metaphysical Subjects. Judith Sargent Murray
publishes On the Equality of the Sexes.
1791 22 June: Death of Catharine Macaulay. Olympe de Gouges
writes Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen.
1792 Mary Wollstonecraft publishes A Vindication of the Rights of
Woman.
1793 4 November: Olympe de Gouges executed.
1797 10 September: Death of Mary Wollstonecraft.
1804 12 February: Death of Immanuel Kant.
1807 G. W. F. Hegel publishes Phenomenology of Mind.
1820 6 July: Death of Judith Sargent Murray.
1825 Anna Doyle Wheeler co-authors The Appeal of One Half the
Human Race, Women, Against the Pretensions of the Other Half, Men

xx •

CHRONOLOGY

to Restrain Them in Political and Thence in Civil and Domestic Slavery
with William Thompson.
1831 14 November: Death of G. W. F. Hegel.
1848 Death of Anna Doyle Wheeler.
1851 Harriet Taylor writes The Enfranchisement of Women.
1858 Death of Harriet Taylor.
1863 John Stuart Mill publishes Utilitarianism.
1867 Karl Marx publishes Das Kapital (vol. 1).
1869 John Stuart Mill publishes The Subjection of Women.
1873 8 May: Death of John Stuart Mill.
1875 Antoinette Brown Blackwell publishes The Sexes Throughout
Nature.
1883 14 March: Death of Karl Marx.
1883–1884
(parts 1–3).

Friedrich Nietzsche publishes Thus Spoke Zarathustra

1884 Friedrich Engels publishes The Origin of the Family, Private
Property, and the State.
1892 Anna Julia Cooper publishes A Voice from the South by a Black
Woman of the South.
1895 5 August: Death of Friedrich Engels.
1900 25 August: Death of Friedrich Nietzsche.
1905 Sigmund Freud publishes Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality.
1911 Charlotte Perkins Gilman publishes The Man-Made World; or,
Our Androcentric Culture. Emma Goldman publishes Anarchism and
Other Essays.

CHRONOLOGY •

xxi

1921 5 November: Death of Antoinette Brown Blackwell.
1935 17 August: Death of Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
1939 23 September: Death of Sigmund Freud.
1940 14 May: Death of Emma Goldman.
1943 Jean-Paul Sartre publishes Being and Nothingness.
1949 Simone de Beauvoir publishes The Second Sex.
1951 29 April: Death of Ludwig Wittgenstein.
1953 Ludwig Wittgenstein’s Philosophical Investigations published.
1957 Ayn Rand publishes Atlas Shrugged.
1964 27 February: Death of Anna Julia Cooper.
1965 Hannah Arendt publishes Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on
the Banality of Evil.
1972 The ﬁrst academic society for women philosophers, the Society
for Women in Philosophy (SWIP), founded in the United States.
1975 4 December: Death of Hannah Arendt.
1976 Michel Foucault publishes The History of Sexuality (vol. 1).
1980 15 April: Death of Jean-Paul Sartre.
1982 6 March: Death of Ayn Rand.
1984 25 June: Death of Michel Foucault.
1986 14 April: Death of Simone de Beauvoir. First issue of Hypatia:
A Journal of Feminist Philosophy published in the United States.
1988 First formal gathering of Latin American feminist philosophers—the International Conference in Feminism and Philosophy in
Latin America—held in Mexico.
2001 The ﬁrst conference of the Feminist Ethics and Social Theory
(FEAST) association held in the United States.

Introduction

The fundamental distinction between feminist philosophy and mainstream philosophy is that feminist philosophy does not claim to search
for knowledge for its own sake, but rather for the sake of a political
goal: resistance to, and elimination of, the subordination of women.
Feminist philosophy is no one thing; it covers a wide variety of perspectives and approaches. It is possible, however, to characterize the approach of many feminist philosophers to this political goal as one that
uses gender as a lens of analysis, both to create a new, distinctly feminist philosophy and to expose the ‘‘maleness’’ of the Western intellectual tradition. The fact that philosophical work is done by a female
philosopher, or that it focuses on the presence or absence of women in
philosophical thought in some way, is not enough for that work to be
identiﬁed as feminist.
Feminist philosophy as an overall project has a twofold commitment
that is both intellectual and political. First, it is committed to the uncovering and elimination of gender biases in philosophy. It is also, by extension, committed to the identiﬁcation and removal of the androcentric
thought in society more generally, as this thought has been bolstered by
the philosophical tradition. It is here that the mutual relationship between feminist philosophy and the feminist movement is at its most evident: feminist philosophy is both generated by and adds to the
knowledge produced by the feminist movement of the situation of
women. The second commitment of feminist philosophy is—through
the use of the philosophical perspectives and insights that have come
from this initial critique—to inform and reconstruct the discipline of
philosophy itself.
A surprisingly long history of philosophical work can be categorized
as feminist, but it was not until the 1970s that feminist philosophy developed into a distinct subject ﬁeld. The earliest publications of this
xxiii

xxiv •

INTRODUCTION

work in mainstream philosophical journals were in the United States:
The Monist (1973) and The Philosophical Forum (1973–1974). Feminist philosophy, since then, has developed rapidly.
The original sources of feminist philosophy have been central to its
different stages of development, and remain central to an understanding
of its scope and aims. These original sources are the philosophical tradition and the feminist movement; indeed, the trends and changes within
feminist philosophy have often paralleled the developments of the feminist movement itself.
Generated by the feminist movement’s critique of the androcentrism
in society, feminist philosophy began as a critical reaction to the gender
biases within the mainstream philosophy tradition. This critique does
not necessarily mean that the tradition has been rejected wholesale, nor
does it mean that feminist philosophy is merely a negative or destructive enterprise. The emphasis in the feminist movement on the revaluing
of the experiences of women has played out in the construction of feminist philosophy as an identiﬁable ﬁeld of study in its own right. Feminist philosophers, for example, have reconceived traditional subject
ﬁelds, such as ethics and epistemology, to include gendered perspectives, or they have introduced new areas of study, such as the issues
surrounding sexuality.
The original sources of feminist philosophical thought are evident in
the way that its subject matter includes both a feminist examination of
different subject areas of philosophy and also a philosophical examination of feminist theory and practice. It is worthwhile examining these
two sources, as this can give a better understanding both of the subject
matter of feminist philosophy itself and of the changes within this subject matter over the decades.

THE FEMINIST MOVEMENT
AND FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY
The feminist movement of the United States and Western Europe is typically divided into three periods or waves. Essentially, the feminist
movement has as its goal the elimination of the social, political, economic, and cultural oppression of women, although the emphasis placed
on these different elements has varied during the history of the move-

INTRODUCTION •

xxv

ment. While there has been feminist activism in other countries, the
Western feminist movement is taken to deﬁne the boundaries of the theories and goals of feminism.
The ﬁrst wave of feminism is the period of challenges to the legal
and social inequalities from the mid-1800s to 1920 in the United States
and the United Kingdom. Intellectually and theoretically, this period of
feminist political activity began earlier, with the publication of feminist
philosopher Mary Wollstonecraft’s clarion call for female equality in
her 1792 work A Vindication of the Rights of Woman. Wollstonecraft’s
achievement was to crystallize the concerns of her predecessors into a
systematic philosophical and political argument. She exposed not only
the oppression of her contemporaries, but identiﬁed the need for a
wholesale social reform to remove that oppression.
The work of this ﬁrst wave of feminism was directed at the social and
economic barriers faced by women of the time. Women during this era
received little formal education. They were also prevented from being
economically independent, either through social attitudes toward
women working, or through laws that, for example, did not allow
women to control their own property and earnings. Instead, marriage
was considered the appropriate destination and goal of a woman’s energies.
The philosophical writings of this era reﬂected these concerns. Harriet Taylor Mill in the late 1800s, for example, argued for economic
opportunities for women, and against the oppressive institution of marriage. Feminist writings of this era also challenged the negative images
of women—and the faulty assumptions about their capacities—that
were often invoked by anti-feminists as the reasons women should not
be properly educated nor be allowed independence (economic or otherwise) from men.
While the era of this ﬁrst wave was a signiﬁcant period of legislative
and social reform, there is some hesitation, on the part of modern feminist thinkers, to deﬁne this era as truly feminist. Reformers of this ﬁrst
wave did not necessarily see themselves as working on behalf of women
per se; rather they often focused on reforming different aspects of women’s lives, such as marital laws and education. Moreover, reformers
often directed their energies only toward the needs and interests of middle-class women.
The second wave of feminism covers the period of intense feminist

xxvi •

INTRODUCTION

activity in the 1960s and 1970s in both Europe and the United States.
Betty Friedan’s 1963 work The Feminine Mystique, in which she describes the frustration experienced by women trapped in a domestic
role, is often seen as the start of this era. Friedan’s work can be seen as
capturing the motivating insight of the second wave: the legal and civil
equalities previously granted to women had not been enough to eliminate the oppression of women.
Friedan founded the National Organization for Women (NOW) in
1966 in order to campaign for the equal rights of women in all areas of
society, such as education and the workplace. The feminism of NOW,
with its emphasis on civil rights, was grounded in the theory of political
liberalism; this emphasis played out in feminist philosophy of the 1970s
in the way that discussions of equality and rights were important issues
of that time.
However, the liberal feminism of NOW was not the only way that
feminists of this period responded to the recognition that women continued to be oppressed. The women’s liberation movement was a more
radical umbrella movement, containing a variety of loosely connected
groups. Typically, these groups were formed by women who had
worked within other protest movements of the 1960s, such as the civil
rights movement, but who had become discouraged by the sexism
within these male-dominated movements.
It was within this latter, more radical movement that the process of
‘‘consciousness raising’’ became a central strategy for women’s liberation. Grounded in the view that ‘‘the personal is political,’’ small groups
of women would meet to share their individual personal experiences. In
discussing these experiences, it was believed that the participants would
come to see the common themes in these experiences: there was a structure or institution of female oppression. The participants would then
work toward strategies for social and political change. Unsurprisingly,
many of the central feminist issues of this period were those of the
‘‘personal,’’ such as abortion or the family. These interests were frequently reﬂected in the philosophical work of the 1970s.
Consciousness raising was not only a driving force for the political
aims of the women’s liberation movement; it was also important because it allowed for a connection to be made between the generation of
knowledge and the experiences of women. No longer were men privileged as the sole ‘‘knowers,’’ creators, or subjects of knowledge (or men

INTRODUCTION •

xxvii

loosely disguised as the supposedly gender-neutral ‘‘man’’). Women
wrote about themselves and against male-biased knowledge. This critique of androcentric knowledge, and the possibilities of knowledge
generated by the experiences of women, can be seen as connected to
the development of feminist epistemology in the 1980s.
The second wave of feminism as a movement also brought to the fore
the need for the development of feminist theorizing, both to interlink
the movement’s political goals and agendas and to organize and analyze
the experiences of women. Philosopher Simone de Beauvoir’s 1949
work The Second Sex is often credited as providing the genesis for
much of the feminist theorizing of the 1970s in the United States and
France. Her work was inﬂuential on some of the feminist theorizing in
the United Kingdom during this time, but socialist feminism was also a
dominant force. Beauvoir can be credited with offering the ﬁrst analysis
of the phenomenon of gender oppression, its effects, and its causes.
Beauvoir claims, in essence, that woman is not born: woman has been
culturally constructed as the negative, inferior ‘‘Other’’ to masculinity,
the latter being identiﬁed as the positive norm within patriarchal society. Beauvoir argues that this construction is the source of women’s oppression.
There is no one uniﬁed or deﬁning feminist theoretical perspective;
rather, a variety of theoretical perspectives are employed to analyze the
oppression of women and to offer strategies for its elimination. Some of
these perspectives are explicitly rooted in traditional Western political
theory: liberalism and Marxism. Others are seen as products of the liberation movement itself: radical feminism, lesbian feminism, socialist
feminism, anarchist feminism, black feminism, and Third World feminism.
By the mid-1980s, changes in the feminist movement were taking
place. Much of the original activist energy of the political feminist
movement had dissipated. In contrast, the theoretical side of feminism
had grown and had become established as a distinctive subject within
academia. Indeed, it is this point that marks the expansion of feminist
philosophy into new areas such as epistemology, ontology, metaphysics, and the philosophy of science.
Feminist theorizing, from the 1980s onward, became more pluralistic. There was no one cause of this shift; however, it is possible to identify two central causal elements. One cause was the fact that the work

xxviii •

INTRODUCTION

of black feminist theorists had become increasingly available at this
time. This work challenged mainstream, predominantly white feminism
in a variety of ways. Black feminists critiqued mainstream feminism for
its exclusion of the voices of women from marginalized groups and for
not recognizing that this exclusion contributes to the continued oppression of these groups. Black feminists also criticized mainstream feminists for their failure to realize that their proposals for gender equality
may rest on the exploitation of others.
The other central cause in the shift in recent feminist theorizing was
the growth of postmodernist thought. The precise effects of postmodernism on feminist thought are hard to pin down, as postmodernist
thought itself is composed of a plurality of views. Moreover, because
of postmodernism’s opposition to Enlightenment thought, it has a contested relationship with feminism because of feminism’s historical roots
in Enlightenment thinking. It is reasonable to say, however, that the
postmodernism rejection of essentialism, its emphasis on pluralistic
knowledge, and its rejection of the Enlightenment notion of the self
have been important inﬂuences on recent feminist thought.
While the political strength of the second wave feminist movement
lay in its apparent unity, it would appear in retrospect that the movement was deﬁned by the experiences and goals of heterosexual, white,
middle-class women. What is often called the third wave of feminism
is, in part, a conscious movement away from these difﬁculties of the
second wave. Third wave feminists recognize that sexual oppression
cannot be eliminated without also addressing racial and economic oppressions. Because of the emphasis of third wave feminists on a plurality of viewpoints, and their rejection of the assumption that there is one
identiﬁable experience of sexist oppression, the third wave has been
hard to deﬁne as a political movement.
Feminist philosophy owes its initial impetus to the feminist movement, and—in many ways—the subsequent progress of feminist philosophy reﬂects the changes within the movement. Despite the variety of
approaches within feminist philosophy, its dominant characteristics illustrate this connection to the feminist movement: an emphasis on analysis using the lens of gender; a recognition of the need to ground theory
on, and make it accountable to, real-life experience; and a sense of collaboration typiﬁed by its openness to work from other disciplines.
Above all, feminist philosophy continues the political work of the femi-

INTRODUCTION •

xxix

nist movement: the analysis and elimination of the oppression of
women.

THE EARLY STAGES OF THE FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHICAL PROJECT:
FEMINIST EXAMINATION OF THE
PHILOSOPHICAL TRADITION
Even for those philosophers who self-identify as feminist philosophers,
the relationship of feminist philosophy to ‘‘mainstream’’ philosophy
can be a contentious one. In its essence, feminist philosophy aims to
uncover and critique male bias in the philosophical tradition. For some
philosophers this does not mean that they need to argue for a complete
rejection of the tradition; they ground their thought in this tradition in
some way, often adapting it to ﬁt feminist goals.
This relationship is further complicated by the fact that potential tensions can exist between someone’s feminist commitments—political
commitments to social and political change—and her or his commitments as a philosopher, for the latter can often include a commitment
to the particular issues and methods of the very tradition under criticism. Given this relationship, some prefer to frame feminist philosophy
as a separate subject area from, or as an alternative to, mainstream philosophy; others want to frame feminist philosophy as being within this
mainstream philosophy.
This dual nature of feminist philosophy—of its criticism of the philosophical tradition and its adaptation of this tradition—is present even
in the earliest of feminist philosophical work. Mary Wollstonecraft, for
example, in her 1792 work A Vindication of the Rights of Woman, was
critical of the inequalities produced by Rousseau’s sex-complementarian views of the role of women. However, her own philosophical view
of the relationship of reason and passion owed much to the work of
Rousseau.
Even though the work of the earliest feminist philosophers did contain criticism of the sexism inherent in some mainstream philosophy, it
is best seen as a series of isolated criticisms, rather than as forming a
pattern of identiﬁable feminist philosophical work. Indeed, it was not
until the 1970s that a clearly identiﬁable pattern of work began to

xxx •

INTRODUCTION

emerge, in particular in the United States. It was during this period that
feminist philosophy started as an academic discipline, speciﬁcally as a
subject area within women’s studies.
Feminist philosophy in France also began to develop during this time.
There were similarities in the initial subject areas of American and
French feminist philosophy, with work being done mainly in ethics and
political philosophy. The theorizing of French philosophers, however,
was consciously less abstract, and it drew on, for example, Marxist and
existentialist thought. In the United Kingdom, feminist philosophy as a
critical force did not surface until the 1980s.
During the 1970s, the most dominant theme was canon critique, a
theme that can be seen to parallel similar feminist critiques in literature
and the arts at this time. The focus of this project was to uncover gender
biases inherent in the philosophical tradition, and to question whether
these biases were separable from the tradition. This canon critique was
practiced in both France and the United States, albeit utilizing different
approaches.
Within Anglo-American philosophy, early examinations of these biases tended to focus on what canonical male philosophers had to say
about women, and how these accounts of women might affect our reading of their work. Other approaches examined the way that women
themselves—or areas of life closely associated with women, such as
the family—were excluded, implicitly or explicitly, from philosophical
discussion. Reﬂecting the knowledge that had been generated by the
feminist movement, it became clear that—despite the apparent neutrality of Western philosophy and its supposedly universal accounts of
‘‘mankind’’—the Western canon contained only the perspective of its
central proponents: white, bourgeois men.
Canon critique in non-Anglophone Europe during this period has
come to be identiﬁed with the work of Luce Irigaray and Michèle Le
Doeuff. Essentially, Irigaray argues that Western philosophy is masculinist, and she illuminates the ways in which the feminine has been suppressed in the history of philosophy. Le Doeuff’s focus is the
exploration of the ways that Western philosophy is grounded in the negation of women. By the late 1980s, these deconstructive readings of
texts by French feminist theorists began to inﬂuence Anglo-American
philosophers, and the latter began to pay attention to the way that the
male-female distinction plays out symbolically within texts as well as
in conceptualizations of reason and its opposites (such as passion).

INTRODUCTION •

xxxi

The other dominant strand, besides canon critique, in Anglo-American feminist philosophy during the 1970s and early 1980s was the exploration of issues in political philosophy and ethics, such as equal
rights and the family. These issues were not only connected to the practical concerns of the feminist movement of that time, but also to its political ancestry. Liberal democratic theory, such as that of the
seventeenth-century English philosopher John Locke, had supplied the
foundations for the liberal feminism of the 1960s and 1970s. Some feminist philosophers, however, began to question these foundations, because the rights and freedoms promoted by traditional liberalism are not
gender neutral but can exclude women or issues associated with
women.
Once canon critique got under way, several things became evident. It
became clear that the male biases of Western philosophy could not simply be redressed by somehow just adding women or their experiences,
interests, and concerns into philosophical theorizing. Feminist philosophers began to see that the biases in philosophy were deeply ingrained
within philosophical thought itself: in its concepts, its ideals, and even
its methodology. They began to explore the ways that the concepts of
reason, objectivity, and impartiality are culturally associated with masculinity, while their opposites are culturally associated with femininity—and devalued accordingly. Moreover, feminist philosophers came
to see that the biases of the Western canon stretched beyond the realm
of philosophy. The canon had had a part to play in the creation of the
system of gender relations and ideals, and it continued to have the potential to be used as a tool of oppression.
This recognition of the biases deep within philosophical thought is
seen by some as marking the development of feminist philosophy as its
own distinct project.

THE CONTEMPORARY FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHICAL PROJECT: CENTRAL ASPECTS
OF THE REVISION AND EXPANSION OF THE
PHILOSOPHICAL ENTERPRISE
The most recent work in feminist philosophy can be grouped roughly
into three categories that cannot be separated completely: Anglo-American analytic feminism, French feminism, and postmodern feminism.

xxxii •

INTRODUCTION

Analytic feminist philosophy is typically aimed at the preservation,
albeit with a feminist revision, of the traditional ideals and goals of
Western philosophy. This is antithetical to the postmodern feminist enterprise, as it does not contain a sweeping rejection of modernism. Because of this, postmodern feminists consider analytic feminists to be
engaged in theorizing about a shared truth, reality, and knowledge: to
be repeating the mistakes of the Enlightenment project. French feminist
philosophers are frequently categorized as postmodernist; however,
their thought is distinctive in the way that it resists, and subverts, the
Western philosophical tradition through the development of a female
language and writing that produces new meaning and knowledge.
Although some feminist philosophical thought comes from nonWestern countries, little of this work at present can be identiﬁed as a
distinct feminist philosophy, for a variety of reasons. Third World feminists in particular, because of their speciﬁc economic, social, and political situations, are frequently more occupied with the practical, rather
than the theoretical, dimensions of feminist thought. Intellectual work
being done by feminists from the Third World may also not ﬁt into the
deﬁnition of feminist philosophy in the North American and Western
European model. Feminist philosophy, in this model, is partly deﬁned
by its commitment to uncovering and eliminating male bias in both current and canonical philosophy.
For Anglo-American analytic feminist philosophers, gender analysis
exposes as false the claims to neutrality and universality of the traditional philosophical project. Philosophical inquiry, they argue, must
begin with an understanding that embodiment, emotions, relationships
with others, and social status all affect inquiry, knowledge, and moral
decision-making and perspectives. This concept of the ‘‘socialized’’—or ‘‘situated’’—self is a central hallmark of the analytic approach.
It is in the ﬁeld of ethics, more than any other, that Anglo-American
analytic feminist philosophy has pressed on the ideals and concepts of
mainstream philosophy. The best known proponent of a feminist approach to ethics is Carol Gilligan, whose work is usually seen as initiating this area of study. Although work by feminists of color is
increasing, thus far most feminist ethicists have been white Western
women.
In essence, the traditional goal of ethics is to identify a single princi-

INTRODUCTION •

xxxiii

ple or set of rules that, on rational reﬂection, will be recognized by all
moral agents as a guide for moral choice. Thus the central moral ideals
are objectivity and universality, ideals which can allow little place for
the emotional and concrete life of the agent. Gilligan argues that, in
the traditional model, the moral ‘‘voice’’ and the experiences of women
become neglected or devalued. She challenges dominant moral philosophy by claiming that a different moral framework, an ‘‘ethics of care,’’
comes out of women’s moral thinking; this ethics understands morality
in terms of responsibility, relationships, and a contextualized answering
of moral problems.
The majority of analytic feminist philosophers agree that some form
of this alternative moral framework exists, and thus that it provides a
central criticism of mainstream moral philosophy. However, there is
distinctively less agreement over what this entails. One of the two central debates is over the importance of this alternative moral thinking for
the dominant framework. The overarching question here is whether this
alternative moral framework should replace the dominant framework or
whether it should inform and improve this framework. The other central
debate is over the importance of the identiﬁcation of a women’s moral
voice for the feminist philosophical project. The promotion of this
moral voice, as it stands, may defeat the purpose of this project by reafﬁrming the potentially oppressive stereotypes of women as emotional
and nurturing and as less capable of abstract thought. For some feminist
philosophers, the recognition of gender differences in moral thinking
and experience can only be valuable if it contributes to the analysis and
removal of the subordination of women.
The feminist charge that traditional moral philosophy has ignored the
experience and situation of women has also led to new perspectives in
the ﬁeld of ‘‘applied’’ ethics. For example, feminist ethicists focus on
power relations within abortion decisions, as opposed to the mainstream focus on the rights of freely choosing, autonomous women.
These new perspectives have also led to the development of new subject
areas within this ﬁeld, such as cosmetic surgery and its interrelation
with oppressive ideals of female beauty.
Feminist philosophers do not focus solely on moral philosophy. Feminist work in the ‘‘core’’ Anglo-American analytic ﬁelds of epistemology, philosophy of science, metaphysics, philosophy of language, and
logic is growing. All of these ﬁelds have been subject to the feminist

xxxiv •

INTRODUCTION

project of critique and revision of traditional philosophy. It is only,
however, in the ﬁelds of epistemology and philosophy of science that a
distinct project can be identiﬁed, a project that is directed at exploring
the question of whether the sex of the knower is epistemologically signiﬁcant: the concept of situated knowledge.
Within this overall project there have been a variety of approaches to
this notion of the situated knower: in particular, the approaches of feminist empiricism, standpoint theory, and postmodernism. In essence,
feminist empiricism questions the ideal of a pure objective knowledge,
and asks whether the political values and historical particulars of the
knower can, and should, inform empirical inquiry. Feminist standpoint
theorists ask whether the particular social and political situation of the
knower provides an epistemic privilege. Postmodern feminists critique
these other two approaches for their reliance on the essentializing notion of ‘‘woman,’’ used either as an object of knowledge or as a knowing subject. Postmodern feminists form this critique out of an
understanding that there are multiple situations of women, and thus
multiple epistemic perspectives.
Within traditional social and political philosophy, the family, sex,
and reproduction have historically been seen as part of the private
sphere. Thus these elements of human social and political life have not
been seen as within the realm of justice, as a component of the good
society, or as subject to laws or government intervention. The earlier
Anglo-American feminist theorizing in the ﬁelds of social and political
philosophy tended to accept this distinction. Feminist philosophers typically concentrated on allowing women equality within, and entry into,
public arenas such as the workplace and educational institutions. Or
they argued for the removal of laws that restricted women’s freedom of
choice within the private lives.
Current feminist work in social and political philosophy is primarily
focused on breaking down, in various ways, the traditional distinction
between the public and private spheres, and on examining the implications for women’s social and political lives that will come out of this.
Feminist philosophers argue, for example, that the political subject, the
subject of the public sphere, is individualistic and abstract. They claim
that this notion is conceptually incoherent and antithetical to the lived
experience of women. Because of their family ties, for example, women
do not have a true freedom of choice over their lives, which is a charac-

INTRODUCTION •

xxxv

teristic of the traditional political subject. Those feminist philosophers
who aim to develop a distinctly feminist theory of justice agree that a
just society is one that is free of oppressive social hierarchies. Beyond
this, there is little agreement on what a feminist theory of justice would
comprise.
Feminist social and political philosophy can be credited with bringing to the fore issues that are of particular concern to women, or that
have been culturally associated with women, such as sexuality and the
domestic life. It has also introduced new subject areas into philosophical discussion, such as lesbian philosophy, which do not have correlating subﬁelds in mainstream philosophy.
Anglo-American analytic philosophy is being increasingly inﬂuenced by the work of both postmodernist philosophers and French feminist philosophers, in particular, for theorizing about gender, the body,
and sexuality. Some Anglophone feminist philosophers categorize as
postmodernist the work of the prominent French feminists Luce Irigaray
and Hélène Cixous. Certainly, their work shares much with postmodernism, but it is perhaps more usefully seen as an identiﬁable way of
writing that has some central shared perspectives on femininity, sexual
difference, and language. The label ‘‘French feminist’’ is not necessarily accepted by the actual thinkers living in France, as they see their
work as having more differences than similarities. However, it is the
shared elements of these thinkers that have had the greatest impact on
feminist philosophy in the rest of Europe, Australia, the United States,
and the United Kingdom. Their inﬂuence is also beginning to extend
into Latin American feminist philosophy.
Whereas Anglophone feminist philosophers discuss whether the liberation of women can be achieved through equality, or through the recognition and revaluing of their sexual difference, the speciﬁc
characteristic of what is known as French feminism is to challenge the
actual framework of discourse that gives these terms meaning. Thus,
for French feminists, sexual difference is produced through the operation of discourse, not biology.
Of the three central ﬁgures in French feminism, only Irigaray is considered a philosopher. Thus her work has had the greatest impact on
feminist philosophy in general, especially her contribution to the more
general discussion of the possibility of a critique of the Western intellectual tradition that does not replay the problematic ‘‘male’’ elements

xxxvi •

INTRODUCTION

of this tradition. Irigaray’s challenge to the traditional frameworks of
language and knowledge, her questioning of the concepts of sex and
gender, as well as her approach to reading philosophical texts, have all
been inﬂuential on Anglophone feminist philosophy.
For Irigaray, women are represented in the patriarchal symbolic order
as the negative ‘‘Other.’’ Thus femininity or the female is male deﬁned
and has no meaning outside of patriarchal discourse. Moreover, as female sexuality has no cultural representation, it does not have an existence. Irigaray offers a critique that aims to make visible the effects of
this symbolism both on texts and, because it is mistaken as real, on the
lives of actual women. For Irigaray, the central effect of this symbolism
is to place women outside the philosophical tradition; thus, she argues,
the knowledge generated by the Western intellectual tradition is not
neutral or objective, but gendered.
Irigaray aims to create a different structure of thought and speaking,
a ‘‘feminine’’ writing—écriture féminine—that operates outside the
male symbolic order. This writing symbolically represents women’s
bodies and sexuality. This speaking position is one of critique, but like
female sexuality, it is no one thing: it is multiple and ﬂuid. Thus, as this
new language comes from a position that is consciously not neutral or
ﬁxed, it has no one meaning or truth. This disrupts the ‘‘male’’ discourse of the Western philosophical tradition, a discourse premised on
the existence of an objective truth discoverable by reason alone. Irigaray’s language that is spoken by women is not just one of critique; it is
also meaning-making. Thus it also leads to the exploration of the new
ways of knowledge that come from the (metaphorical) female body.
Postmodern feminist thought has been a central inﬂuence on feminist
philosophy in both Europe and the United States, due in particular to its
questioning of the categories of sex, gender, and sexuality. Postmodern
feminism disrupts these categories, rejecting them because they are unitary and essentializing concepts that are creations of networks of political power. Instead, for postmodernists, these categories are unstable,
not ﬁxed.
Postmodern critique undercuts the terms of the sex/gender debate, for
this framework is grounded in the assumption that there is some unitary
and essentialist notion of woman. While this was the motivating concept of the feminist political movement, many feminist philosophers—
inﬂuenced by postmodernism—now criticize as false any claim that

INTRODUCTION •

xxxvii

there is a universal notion of woman. According to postmodern feminists, the view that there is an essential meaning of ‘‘woman’’ results in
the enforced production of certain behaviors and practices that reﬂect
and sustain that meaning. They argue, furthermore, that the essentialist
category of ‘‘woman’’ is exclusionary, for this separates gender identity
from, for example, racial identity. This means that, for women of color,
their racial identity is external and secondary, and thus their speciﬁc
experiences and oppressions as women of color become marginalized
or invisible. This recognition of difference has been a central inﬂuence
on non-postmodern feminist philosophy, to the point where a recognition of difference is almost automatic in theorizing in any of the ﬁelds
of feminist philosophy.
Despite the increasing inﬂuence of postmodernist thought on feminist philosophy, there is no agreement among feminist philosophers
over whether a postmodernist feminist philosophy itself is possible.
Some feminist philosophers aim to uncover connections of postmodernism and feminism, but for others there is an irresolvable tension between the two.
Both postmodern philosophers and non-postmodern feminist philosophers agree that the neutrality, rationality, and objectivity of the traditional philosophical subject (the unsituated knower using reason alone),
and the knowledge or truths acquired by that subject, are a mythology.
The ideal of the objective knower in search of the truth is not in itself
objective or true but is, instead, the ideal of a particular historical and
cultural context.
The tensions between the two approaches lie in the next step of the
feminist philosophical project. Feminist philosophers resist offering an
alternative overarching narrative of truth and knowledge; however, they
maintain that the feminist philosophical project is aimed at the production of a generally applicable theory of political philosophy, one that
requires some kind of stable, and identiﬁable, category of women.
Without this, they claim, feminist politics would be nothing other than
multiple subjectivities, and feminism would have no real explanatory
or political power; it would be simply one mode of discourse among
others.
In their turn, postmodernist feminists reject the legitimacy of the
feminist philosophical project, because it aims to offer a uniﬁed, or overarching ‘‘grand narrative’’ of political philosophy that is grounded in

xxxviii •

INTRODUCTION

essentialist notions of women. Some postmodern feminists, however,
question this tension, as they hold that postmodernism need not require
the rejection of all theorizing itself, but only the rejection of essentializing and universalizing theory.
Feminist philosophy, in all its different global forms, continues to
evolve. The feminist philosophical enterprise has never been static; it is
always in the process of change and development. Indeed, part of the
goal of the feminist philosophical enterprise is the generation of new
philosophical theories and perspectives, such as ecofeminism, as well
as new subject ﬁelds, such as philosophy of ﬁlm.

THE INFLUENCE OF FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY
ON MAINSTREAM PHILOSOPHY
It is clear that mainstream philosophy is expanding in its scope as it
becomes increasingly inﬂuenced by the discoveries and critiques of
feminist philosophy. This inﬂuence is often below the surface; thus it
can be hard to discern. However, two clearly identiﬁable aspects of this
inﬂuence are the trends toward virtue theory and more contextualized
theorizing in mainstream ethics, and the loosening of disciplinary
boundaries between philosophy and, for example, literature.
Feminist philosophers have begun to ask new questions of the relationship between mainstream philosophy and feminist philosophy.
They no longer simply ask whether the ideals and commitments of traditional philosophy, as well as the work of canonical philosophers,
could perform important work for feminism. They now also ask what
feminist philosophy can offer philosophy itself. In this way, feminist
philosophy can be seen as not simply destructive, or even reconstructive, but as the next level in the evolution of philosophy.

The Dictionary

–A–
ABORTION. Abortion became a topic of particular interest for professional philosophers in the early 1970s, as changes in its criminal
status occurred in many Western countries. There is no uniﬁed feminist philosophical view of abortion, but a variety of perspectives.
While feminism is often linked with an abortion rights stance, there
is no necessary connection between the two. Some feminists are not
committed to abortion rights because they believe that such rights
may increase women’s subordination through, for example, the possibility that women can be pressured into abortions by their male
partners. Some feminists of color, while not necessarily arguing
against abortion rights in theory, point to the differences in meanings
and experiences of abortion between white women and women of
color; they refer, speciﬁcally, to the history of reproductive control
over women of color, and the history of abortion rights as primarily
beneﬁting white middle-class women.
Mainstream (i.e., non-feminist) debate over the issue of abortion
typically takes place within a framework of rights: whether the fetus
has personhood and is thus the bearer of rights, and if so, whether
the right to life of the fetus outweighs the rights of the woman to
privacy or ownership of her body. Some contemporary feminist philosophers have argued that this rights framework is male-biased, in
that it deals with people as abstract individuals, not as members of a
social community. Others have argued for a care-based perspective,
claiming that the moral focus must be on responsibilities and relationships, rather than rights. Feminist perspectives on abortion tend
to emphasize the role and existence of the mother and her moral
agency, while also situating the abortion debate within the wider so1

2 •

ABSTRACT INDIVIDUALISM

cial and political context of how abortion access may serve to liberate women. Accordingly, these perspectives on abortion often move
beyond the speciﬁcs of the debate itself to discussions of accessibility, contraception, child care, and employment. See also FAMILY;
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
ABSTRACT INDIVIDUALISM. See INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT.
ADVERSARY METHOD. See METHODOLOGY.
AESTHETICS. Feminist aesthetics covers the same two areas of study
as mainstream aesthetic philosophy: the philosophy of art and the
philosophy of the aesthetic experience. A pivotal difference, however, makes feminist aesthetics a distinct subject ﬁeld. Underlying
the feminist project is the belief that these two areas of study are not
value neutral; speciﬁcally, they are not gender neutral. Thus, for
feminist philosophers, the central aesthetic questions concerning the
nature and function of art, and the relation of art to society, are ultimately questions of gender and justice.
Feminist work in aesthetics began in the 1970s with a questioning
of the Western tradition, both for the way that deﬁnitions of art and
creativity exclude women, and also for the gender bias in the ideals
of, and the theorizing about, the aesthetic experience.
Feminist philosophers hold that the distinction in Western aesthetics made between ﬁne art (which is produced for aesthetic pleasure)
and craft (which is produced for a speciﬁc practical use) functions to
exclude forms of art, such as quilt-making, that are traditionally done
by women. This critique has been accompanied by work aimed at
both the recovery of forgotten women artists for the canon, and the
inclusion of aesthetic traditions that have been marginalized because
they have been dismissed as not ‘‘real’’ art.
Feminist philosophers argue, moreover, that women are excluded
not just by deﬁnitions of artistic work but also by notions of the artist
and creativity. Although the conception of the artistic genius has not
been static, there is a dominant notion that crystallized in the eighteenth century of the genius as a solitary individual who combines
a powerful intellect with a ﬁne-grained sensibility. Furthermore, the

AESTHETICS •

3

autonomy of this individual was a requirement for a free creative
process. While the possession of ‘‘womanly’’ emotions was seen as
part of the make-up of the genius, the actual emotions he possessed
were often seen as distinct from those of the actual emotional life of
women. Women’s emotional life was supposedly dominated by mundane and non-transcendent feelings that were part of their biological
roles of bearing and rearing children. Moreover, the ability to distance oneself from daily life is viewed by feminist philosophers as
one aspect of male privilege, as it contrasts with the reality of many
women’s lives.
This questioning of the Western tradition of art for its exclusion of
women led to discussions among feminist theorists from philosophy,
literary theory, and art history about the possibility of a ‘‘feminine
aesthetic.’’ The speciﬁc question is whether there is such a thing as
‘‘women’s’’ art or art criticism. In the 1980s, feminist philosophers
began to criticize this notion for its underlying essentialism, and for
its foundation on the traditional ‘‘feminine’’ characteristics, such as
intuitiveness and empathy, created by patriarchy.
The examination of the marginalization of women in the arts led
to a consideration of whether this marginalization was a simple case
of sexism, or whether there was a deeper cause that came from the
ideals of traditional aesthetics. Feminist philosophers claim that the
ideals of the traditional account, which come primarily from the philosophical work of the eighteenth century, are gendered. Traditionally, aesthetic pleasure is ‘‘disinterested’’ and contemplative, and is
not supposed to be affected by the individual’s own desires or situation. The fact that aesthetic experience is freed of context then means
that universal value judgments can be made about the beauty of a
work of art.
It is argued that this traditional conception of the aesthetic experience is gendered for two main reasons. First, this capacity to take a
disinterested stance was not attributed to women, as they were
thought to lack the necessary intellectual capacity for ‘‘taste’’: the
faculty for judgments about art and beauty. Second, artistic representations of women typically treated them as passive objects for the
aesthetic experience of the spectator. The distanced contemplating
subject, and this subject’s aesthetic pleasure, are then framed as the
privilege of men. This ‘‘male gaze’’ on representations of women is

4 •

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

an activity of power: it transforms the female body into an object of
desire. Thus women, as object not subject, cannot return the gaze.
This notion of the ‘‘male gaze’’ originated with art criticism, but it is
a central notion in feminist aesthetics as it challenges the possibility
of an objective aesthetic response: the ideal of traditional aesthetics.
Speciﬁc interests of feminist philosophers in this notion include the
origins of the gendering of the gaze and the way that perception functions as an act of power.
One central theme in the most current work in feminist aesthetics
is the examination of the roles the body, and the beautiﬁcation of
the body, play in women’s lives. There is work, for example, on the
differences in representations of black and white women’s bodies
within a racist culture, and how these representations function to reinforce power relations between groups, as well as to afﬁrm the value
placed on members of these groups. The examination of the beautiﬁcation of women’s bodies shifts the discussion of beauty from the
traditional discussions of abstract beauty in the arts to the creation of
personal beauty. There is disagreement as to whether the attainment
of beauty can be understood as a means to self-expression and pleasure for the individual or whether it is solely a required characteristic
of femininity: for the pleasure of men.
Another central theme in the most current work in feminist aesthetics, particularly in the developing subﬁeld of philosophy of ﬁlm,
is the examination of theories of interpretation. Feminist philosophers discuss, for example, whether a totalizing theory, such as psychoanalytic theory (which is grounded in the assumption that there
are universal psychological responses), can produce a full analysis of
the playing out of gender ideologies in a ﬁlm, or whether a better
analysis can come from a particularist examination: a focus on speciﬁc genres and individual ﬁlms.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION. The term afﬁrmative action originated in
a U.S. government policy that came from President Lyndon Johnson’s 1965 Executive Order 11246. This order stated that any institution that was connected to federal government was required not only
to avoid explicit discrimination, but to ‘‘take afﬁrmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION •

5

during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin.’’ In 1967, Johnson expanded the order to cover women.
In the ﬁrst decades following the order, the focus of afﬁrmative
action in the United States was on both gender and race in a variety
of institutional settings. In the early 1970s, the full implementation
of the executive order started to affect American universities. At this
time there were few people of color with Ph.D.’s, so debate within
academic institutions crystallized around the hiring of female
Ph.D.’s. The debate soon spilled over into philosophical discussions
(both feminist and non-feminist), especially because there was a
growing trend at that time toward a more applied philosophy in political and social philosophy. Afﬁrmative action policies are now
prevalent in many Western countries besides the United States; since
the 1990s, the focus of these policies is usually on the admission of
racial minorities to higher education.
Afﬁrmative action is intended as a temporary measure to bring
about equality of opportunity in society. The goal is equality of results, rather than equality of treatment. The argument is that policies
based on equality of treatment may only perpetuate inequality, as
they fail to recognize how gender, race, and other factors may serve
to disadvantage people.
Afﬁrmative action policies typically fall into one of two categories
that can be labeled ‘‘weak’’ and ‘‘strong’’ preference policies. In the
case of the former, preference is given to a member of a targeted
group whose qualiﬁcations are equal to other applicants. In the case
of ‘‘strong’’ preference, a member of the targeted group with appropriate qualiﬁcations is chosen over other candidates with better qualiﬁcations. A variety of different arguments have been given for this
latter, more controversial approach: for example, that it provides role
models, it provides reparations for past injustices, and it does not penalize a candidate for lacking the social and economic privileges that
tend to lead to better qualiﬁcations.
Although afﬁrmative action is a component of the politics of liberal feminism, it has wide support from feminist philosophers of all
types, who have considered a variety of issues. Among them are discussions of equality itself, what it means to be qualiﬁed, and how to
defend particular practices and policies.
However, afﬁrmative action has not been without its critics among

6 •

AFRICA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN

feminist philosophers. For some, it is merely tokenism that does little
to change the causes of inequality. Others claim that afﬁrmative action requires an overly simplistic categorization of its beneﬁciaries
into set groups; this cannot allow for policies ﬂexible enough to deal
with individuals who experience multiple disadvantages produced
by membership in more than one of these groups. See also RACE
AND RACISM.
AFRICA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. While there has been a lot
of feminist intellectual work and activism in Africa, there has not
been much that can be categorized, strictly speaking, as work in feminist philosophy as it now is deﬁned. Feminist philosophy, as understood on the North American and Western European model, is partly
deﬁned by its commitment to uncovering and eliminating male bias
in both current and canonical philosophy. Scholars are presently engaged, through a variety of approaches, in identifying an African tradition or traditions of philosophy, ones with speciﬁc philosophical
worldviews, theories, and positions; but African philosophy, as a
whole, remains fragmented. There is not a sufﬁciently cohesive African tradition of philosophy that can be the subject of a feminist philosophical examination (as feminist philosophy is currently
understood). Thus, at present, there appears little room for the development of an African feminist philosophy. However, African feminist philosopher Helen Oduk argues that there is the potential to
develop an African feminist philosophy if it is informed by traditional disciplines such as philosophy. See also BLACK FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHY.
AFRICAN AMERICAN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY. See BLACK
FEMINIST ETHICS; BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY.
AGE/AGEISM. Ageism refers to systematic discrimination against the
elderly. This discrimination occurs in a variety of ways: for example,
through harmful stereotyping or economic restrictions. Thus far,
there have been few contemporary philosophical discussions of age
and ageism; the one central exception is the twentieth-century French
philosopher Simone de Beauvoir. In her 1960 work La Force de
l’Age (The Coming of Age), Beauvoir examines what she calls soci-

ALIENATION •

7

ety’s ‘‘secret shame.’’ By this she means the systematic marginalization of the aged; this marginalization has been implicitly justiﬁed by
degrading stereotypes of this section of society, and reinforced by
their lack of economic and political power to defend themselves.
Beauvoir’s analysis is sweeping, examining everything from the biological process of aging to the condition of the aged, both historically
and in different contemporary societies.
AGENCY. See MORAL AGENCY.
ALIENATION. The concept of alienation can be traced back to the
Judeo-Christian tradition; it was ﬁrst used in the Western philosophical tradition by the German philosopher G. W. F. Hegel for the state
of human estrangement from nature. The term was used in Karl
Marx’s earlier works to describe the human fragmentation and isolation that is a distinctive feature of capitalist society. This latter conceptualization of alienation, once it has been extended to include
speciﬁcally feminist philosophical concerns, provides a useful lens
through which to examine the subordination of women. Viewed in
terms of traditional Marxist theory, women are alienated in the same
way as men: as wage laborers. The majority of feminist philosophers
reject this account of women’s alienation as overly simplistic, arguing that women’s alienation takes a variety of forms, such as alienation from cultural production and from their own intellectual
capacities. The two most evident forms of women’s alienation come
from sexuality and from motherhood.
In the case of sexuality, as male economic support is women’s best
economic security, women have little choice but to direct their sexuality and their bodies toward this end. Women labor to transform
their bodies for the approval and attention of men, and deﬁne their
sexuality in terms of what is pleasing to men. Like wage labor, not
only does this alienate women from themselves, but it forms a barrier
toward genuine female friendships, as women are potentially in competition with each other for economic ‘‘rewards’’: men.
Motherhood is also alienating for women in ways similar to the
alienation of the wage laborer. The increased medicalization of childbirth alienates the mother both from the child, who is the ‘‘product’’
of her reproductive labor, and from the ‘‘process’’ of reproductive

8 •

AMERICAN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY

labor itself. Furthermore, the work of child-rearing has increased for
Western women; the isolated suburban mother, for example, works a
double shift as both a wage earner and a chauffeur/tutor/baby-sitter.
This alienation is further increased by the perception of children as
commodities produced for the satisfaction of the emotional needs of
the mother.
Some feminist philosophers have argued that it is not just the different elements of women’s lives that are alienating, but femininity
itself. The feminine and the masculine are conceptualized as both
opposite and opposing; conformity to gender stereotypes thus means
that men and women are alienated from each other. Moreover, this
also leads to alienation from one’s own self, as the free productive
activity that leads to the development of human capacities is drastically limited.
The notion of alienation in general has been an inﬂuential one,
even for feminist thinkers who do not accept wholesale the possibility that alienation can provide a complete theoretical framework for
the analysis of women’s oppression. Alienation was a prominent
concept from the late 1960s to the mid-1980s in discussions of the
damage produced by patriarchal norms of female beauty and bodies. More recently, however, the notion has come under criticism
from postmodern feminists who claim that it implies the existence
of an unalienated self: an essentialized self. See also SUBJECTIVITY.
AMERICAN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY. See PRAGMATISM.
ANALYTIC FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY (ANALYTIC FEMINISM). Since the earliest beginnings of feminist philosophy as an
academic discipline in the 1970s, most anglophone feminist philosophers have worked within the analytic tradition. At this time, however, the analytic tradition itself was typically the subject of feminist
critique for the male bias in its goals, ideals, and methods. It was not
until the early 1990s that feminist philosophers began the comprehensive project of examining the use of the analytic tradition as a
resource. At this point analytic feminist philosophy developed as an
identiﬁable ﬁeld and the term analytic feminist was coined. This development happened primarily because these philosophers believed

ANALYTIC FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY •

9

in the importance of locating feminism within mainstream philosophy, rather than seeing it as separate or alternative.
Just as there is no one thing that is analytic philosophy, so there is
no one thing that can be called analytic feminism; however, it is possible to offer a working deﬁnition of both. Historically, the ancestry
of analytic philosophy is the canon up until the nineteenth century—
marking the split from Continental Europe—and then the philosophy
of, for example, Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and the Logical
Positivists. The primary values of the analytic project are reason, objectivity, and truth; its central areas of study are the core areas of
epistemology, philosophy of science, logic, and philosophy of language. The typical methods for philosophical study are logical and
linguistic analyses of arguments, claims, and concepts. Analytic philosophers often start from a particular argument, claim, or concept
with the aim to demolish, clarify, or improve upon it. These processes and results of philosophical investigation are evaluated in terms
of their clarity, rigor, and precision. The ideal or standard for analytic
philosophy is thus, in its essence, the discipline of science.
These are the shared elements of mainstream analytic philosophy
and analytic feminism; however, there are some central distinctions
between the two. Analytic feminists recognize that even purportedly
value-neutral and abstract analytic philosophy is political in some
way, for even a deliberately non-political stance is still a political
choice. Analytic feminists do not see the goals and methods of analytic philosophy simply as valuable in themselves; rather they are
also valuable because they can be pressed into the service of feminism’s political goals. These political goals are typically those of liberal feminist politics, which is the least radical of the different types
of feminist theory; indeed, it is sometimes the case that analytic feminism is criticized for being too conservative.
While analytic feminism values the central goals, ideals, and methods of mainstream analytic philosophy, it also acknowledges their
male bias. The knower and the moral agent of the analytic tradition
have been criticized as overly abstract, and as devoid of the historical
particulars that are part of the reality of human knowers and agents.
In addition, the methodological paradigm of the analytic tradition,
the adversarial method, has also been criticized for its masculinist
nature. The combative nature of this method is antithetical to the way

10 •

ANALYTIC FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY

women are socialized to behave. Moreover, the method itself excludes other valuable philosophical styles, approaches, and histories,
and is thus non-feminist.
Ultimately, however, analytic feminists have embraced the analytic tradition, arguing that reason and objectivity are valuable for
the feminist project. They claim, for example, that these notions are
required to demolish the irrational and subjective arguments of antifeminists. While questions still remain about the gendering of the
ideals and tools of analytic philosophy, analytic feminists claim that
the analytic tradition is not ﬁxed or permanent, and thus can become
gender neutral. Analytic feminists have worked within a wide variety
of philosophical ﬁelds, but they have tended to concentrate on the
core ﬁeld of epistemology. Central to this work is the naturalization
of epistemology: that empirical data about knowers and their particular situation (the concept of the situated knower), as well as theories
from the social sciences, are an important source of information.
The proponents of analytic feminism hold that their approach, because of its rigor, precision, and clarity, is a useful tool for uncovering and analyzing oppression, and thus it can promote social reform.
It has been maintained, for example, that analytic feminism can help
clarify what exactly are the categories of sex and gender, and how
they can be deﬁned. Analytic philosophy can show that there is no
set of criteria (i.e., characteristics) that can provide the necessary and
sufﬁcient conditions for someone to be called ‘‘female’’ or ‘‘feminine.’’ Thus analytic philosophy can, for example, undermine arguments—either liberating or oppressive—that are grounded in the
existence of identiﬁable sexes or genders.
Questions have been asked, however, about the inclusivity of analytic feminism, an issue that is especially pertinent in light of the history of exclusion of women and the feminine from science. A
properly feminist philosophy not only must offer possibilities for social reform but must also be inclusive. Yet analytic philosophy, by its
very nature, struggles to allow for different experiences and ways of
thinking. Part of the way of ensuring inclusivity is attention to difference, yet the logical and linguistic analyses characteristic of analytic
philosophy function best when they are free from actual context. This
difﬁculty of incorporating the political goal of inclusivity remains a

ANCIENT GREEK PHILOSOPHY •

11

stumbling block for analytic feminism. See also CONTINENTAL
PHILOSOPHY.
ANARCHIST FEMINISM (ANARCHA-FEMINISM). A variety of
feminist views are covered by this umbrella term, which can be characterized as a political resistance to social hierarchy and the authority
of the state. Modern anarcha-feminists are heirs to the thought of anarchist feminist philosophers Emma Goldman and Voltairine de
Cleyre, both of whom wrote at the turn of the twentieth century.
Goldman and de Cleyre can be credited with making the ﬁrst connections between the anarchist goal of individual freedom and the freedom of women. They made these connections through their claims
that dominance, and the corresponding need for freedom, were as
much a part of the private sphere (the family and marriage) as of
the public sphere.
Present-day anarcha-feminists maintain the anarchist ideal of individual freedom but frame it as something that can occur only within a
community, speciﬁcally a non-hierarchical community. The classical
anarchist understanding of the purpose of a society is to produce the
good life for its members, and for anarcha-feminists this is understood as one of freedom and room for the growth of the individual.
By deﬁnition, hierarchical society—and its institutions that reﬂect
and reinforce hierarchy, such as the family, work, and schools—
prevent the good life. For anarcha-feminists, organization against social hierarchy must be spontaneous, as more formal or structured
groups can have the potential to replay social hierarchies and systems
of dominance. See also PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
ANCIENT GREEK PHILOSOPHY. Given that Western philosophy
owes its foundation—the idea of the capacity of human reason to
discover truth—to the thought of classical Greece, there has been a
signiﬁcant amount of analysis of the philosophy of the ancient Greek
world. The feminist project in this area is typical of other work in the
feminist history of philosophy in that it is threefold: the identiﬁcation and reclamation of women philosophers, the examination of
texts for sexist bias, and the consideration of these texts as potential
resources. Given the status of Plato and Aristotle in the canon, most
of the work in this project has focused on their philosophy; since the

12 •

ANCIENT GREEK PHILOSOPHY

1970s, there has been a variety of different approaches to the critique
and recovery of their thought.
In the case of the rediscovery of women philosophers, this is not
in fact an original project. In 1690, Gilles Ménage wrote History of
Women Philosophers, in which he undertook a similar project of examining ancient texts for evidence of the existence of women philosophers, identifying about twenty Greek women thinkers. Some of
these Greek thinkers have been known by name only. In the case of
Pythagorean and Neo-Pythagorean women philosophers, however,
some fragments of their work have survived, and there is a strong
case for their authenticity. Only at a stretch could any of these Pythagorean thinkers be called feminist; their interest for feminist philosophers is mainly because they attest to the existence of early female
philosophers.
With recent developments in feminine ethics exploring the existence and potential of gendered morality, there has been an increased interest in the thought of these ancient Greek women. There
are some central themes in the writings of these Pythagorean and
Neo-Pythagorean women philosophers, although these themes are
not common to all thinkers, nor is there agreement in their views.
One of these central themes is the encouragement of women to develop their capacity for philosophy. The other is the elaboration of
the differences in virtues between the sexes; the virtues speciﬁc to
women are moderation and obedience, both of which are needed to
achieve harmony in the household. On the surface this might seem
nothing more than a reinforcement of standard sexist attitudes; however, these thinkers hold that women’s virtues are, though different,
equal to those of men. Indeed, there does seem to be the implication
in some of the texts that female virtues are in fact the superior ones.
This practical use of virtue and philosophy is of interest to those feminist philosophers who wish to confront traditional dualist notions
of philosophy as purely intellectual and separate from material life.
Furthermore, it also provides a prototype for those feminist philosophers who wish to consider ways in which a women’s philosophy
will reﬂect women’s concerns and possibilities, in contrast to the
ways that traditional philosophical thinking has reﬂected the concerns of men.
The earliest indication of the sometimes ambiguous nature of

ANCIENT GREEK PHILOSOPHY •

13

women’s connection to wisdom throughout the history of philosophy
can be found in ancient Greek thought. Parmenides (ca. 539–500
BCE) provides the ﬁrst instance of a female ﬁgure who leads men to
wisdom through her own reasoning and arguing. Despite the dominant view that women lack the capacity (for a variety of reasons) for
philosophical thinking, this competing, more minor imagery of
women as providers of wisdom is a recurring one. A central example
is the ﬁgure of Diotima, who supposedly taught Socrates his philosophy of love.
The ﬁrst manifestations of those elements of traditional philosophical thinking that are of concern for contemporary feminist philosophy can be found in ancient Greek thought: normative dualism,
gendered morality, and the gendering of wisdom and reason. There
is evidence of gendered dualist thinking that can be traced as far back
as the poet Hesiod (ca. 700 BCE). For Hesiod, there was an antagonistic relationship between the opposites of female earth and male
sky, as well as between the male and female gods. Indeed, he depicts
women as a punishment for or a danger to men.
Based on reports of his philosophy, it is apparently Pythagoras (ca.
570–497 BCE) who introduced the normative framing of these pairs
of opposites as binary opposites. Thus male was framed as superior
to female, as light was to dark, good to evil, and so forth. Moreover,
by association, the superior of each pair became linked to each other,
and the same happened for the inferior of each pair. Thus female became associated with dark, evil, and so on.
The ways in which this dualist thinking play out in human life for
Pythagoras are more complex. Pythagoras offers the earliest philosophical thinking about what is now labeled by feminist philosophers
as the gendering of reason and morality. The moral ideal for all humans is harmony both of the soul and in society, and both sexes are
equally capable of achieving harmony through chaste behavior.
However, the route to harmony between husband and wife is different
for each sex: women are to practice the virtue of obedience, while
men show virtue in ruling. Pythagoras’s view of women is ambiguous, for he holds that, outside of the realm of material life, the sexes
are equal. He views reason as gender neutral, and thus holds that both
sexes are capable of philosophy. This explains the distinct presence

14 •

ANDROCENTRISM

of Pythagorean women philosophers and may also explain their philosophical interests.
Early signs of the gendering of language can also be traced back
to the thought of ancient Greece. It was apparently the Sophist Protagoras (490–420 BCE) who introduced the notion of nouns being
male, female, or neuter. Even though this framework was not dualist,
what is problematic is that the choice of gender for each word was
not random; rather the gender of the word supposedly reﬂected the
gendered nature of the object. In this way, language reinforces gender
divisions—speciﬁcally, divisions that were not value neutral.
It is Aristotle, however, who is credited with offering the ﬁrst comprehensive theoretical account of the superiority of men and their
correlating superiority in virtues, capacity for reason, and social
status. In Aristotle’s account, the inferior virtue and reason of women
potentially exclude them from the good life. This account not only
restricts women to the life of the household but also makes it plausible to claim that their role in maintaining the household is required
in order to give men the freedom and comfort they need to pursue
the good life for themselves. Because of this, and given Aristotle’s
status in the canon, his work has been a central target for feminist
philosophers working on ancient Greek philosophy.
ANDROCENTRISM. The term androcentrism was ﬁrst used by
Charlotte Perkins Gilman in her 1911 work The Man-Made World;
or, Our Androcentric Culture to describe a male-centered culture or
system of thought in which the male is identiﬁed and valued as the
norm and the female as deviant from that norm. Gilman states in this
work that ‘‘all our human scheme of things rests on the same tacit
assumption; man being held the human type; woman a sort of accompaniment and subordinate assistant, merely essential to the making
of people. . . . Nevertheless, . . . what we have all this time called
‘human nature’ . . . was in great part only male nature. . . . Our
androcentric culture is so shown to have been, and still to be, a masculine culture in excess, and therefore undesirable.’’
ANDROGYNY. A Greek word that comes from andro (male) and gyn
(female). An androgynous personality is neither stereotypically masculine nor feminine but displays some kind of combination of both

ANGLO-AMERICAN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY •

15

sets of traits. This notion has been of interest for feminist philosophers for its political and ethical dimensions. Androgyny can be seen
as a good for an individual, male or female, because it does not limit
the freedom of that individual to choose among the spectrum of social roles and characteristics. Moreover, not only does androgyny
seem to offer justice for the individual, but it would appear to have
the potential to beneﬁt society as a whole.
Psychological and behavioral differences between the sexes, and
thus differences in their subsequently allotted roles and occupations,
have traditionally been seen by scientists and philosophers as the
product of biological sex. In the 1960s and 1970s, second wave feminist thinkers began to argue that these differences in behavior were
in fact differences of gender: they were not ‘‘natural’’ to either sex,
but the result of social convention and conditioning. For some of
these early feminists, the elimination of gender through the creation
of an androgynous society became the solution to the oppression of
women. Those who argued for androgyny were careful to emphasize
that only ‘‘worthy’’ characteristics would be available for choice;
negative gender characteristics, such as ‘‘masculine’’ violence, would
not be included.
More recently, androgyny as the route to gender justice has fallen
out of favor; the standard notions of masculinity and femininity, from
which androgyny is produced, are viewed as unstable and non-unitary notions that are constructed by patriarchy and also serve to reinforce it. See also BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM.
ANGER. Examinations of the speciﬁc emotion of anger are part of a
more general feminist philosophical examination of theories of emotion, and the role of emotion in both human life and philosophical
thought. Anger is of interest for feminist philosophers because of its
potential as a ‘‘political’’ emotion. The recognition by an individual
that her personal experience of sexism is part of a pattern, or institutionalization, of sexism can function as a prompt for activism, or
contribute to knowledge.
ANGLO-AMERICAN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY. See ANALYTIC FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY.

16 •

ANIMAL ETHICS

ANIMAL ETHICS. There is a history of feminist concern over the
treatment of animals. Although they were not animal rights advocates properly speaking, many ﬁrst wave feminists were concerned
about the welfare of animals. Typically, this concern was displayed
through support for the anti-vivisection movement or criticism of the
killing of animals and birds solely for the purpose of women’s fashion. The seventeenth-century philosopher and proto-feminist Margaret Cavendish offered a critique of cruelty to animals, based on her
view that all of nature was rational and sensitive. This critique is
distinctive because it was one of the earliest to invoke philosophical
notions of justice in its arguments for animal welfare.
Feminist animal ethics as a speciﬁc theoretical stance is a new area
of contemporary ecological feminist theory: ecofeminism. While
many ecofeminists argue that non-human animals must be a part of
the moral community, there are differences of opinion over the
grounds of or justiﬁcation for that inclusion. A central problem is
whether use can be made of standard non-feminist arguments for animal rights, as the morality of rights is sometimes criticized as fundamentally masculinist; for example, the traditional picture of the
rights-holder is of an isolated and individualistic being, devoid of
cultural or historical context. See also VEGETARIANISM.
ANTI-MILITARISM. See WAR AND PEACE.
AQUINAS, THOMAS (ca. 1224–1274). Thomas Aquinas was born in
Roccasecca, not far from Naples. His early education was at a Benedictine monastery. He entered the University of Naples at the age of
fourteen. Here he encountered the teachings of the Dominicans, a
new monastic order, and in 1244 he became a Dominican. Aquinas
was a teacher of theology in Paris and was also part of the papal
court. He was a proliﬁc writer; his two major works are the Summa
contra Gentiles (Summa de Veritate Catholicae Fidei contra Gentiles), which he ﬁnished in 1264, and the Summa Theologica (Summa
Theologiae), which he began sometime around 1265. Aquinas was
canonized in 1323.
While Aquinas saw himself as writing academic theology, he covers many of the ﬁelds that are part of current philosophy: metaphysics, ethics, and human nature. The hallmark of Aquinas’s theological

AQUINAS, THOMAS •

17

philosophy is his synthesis of Christian theology with Aristotelian
philosophy. Given that both of these systems of thought have been
criticized by feminist philosophers for their overt misogyny, it is not
surprising that feminist interpretive work on Aquinas has been minimal. The little work there is has usually focused on elaborating his
problematic philosophy of women, speciﬁcally his discussion of
women in the Summa Theologica (1, 92).
In the Summa Theologica, Aquinas takes Aristotle’s famous statement that the female is a misbegotten male and considers it in the
light of the Christian belief system (speciﬁcally Genesis); due to this
latter element, Aristotle’s original claim undergoes some nuancing.
Aquinas argues that the production of a female child is only a defect
in the actual process of generation. In terms of her human nature,
woman is an intentional creation of God. Moreover, in terms of
grace, women are men’s spiritual equals. Unfortunately, in order to
support his view, Aquinas claims that woman was created speciﬁcally for the purpose of reproduction. This is her sole ‘‘operation,’’
whereas man also has the operation of rationality. The reduction of
women to their biological function, and the association of men with
reason, has been seen by feminist philosophers not simply as problematic in itself, but as another example of the symbolic exclusion of
women from the realm of reason in the history of philosophy.
Some present-day theological philosophers have considered ways
to come to terms with Aquinas’s troubling philosophy of women.
Their interest is not so much in the interpretation of Aquinas as a
ﬁgure of medieval philosophy, but rather, it is prompted by the continued presence of Thomist thought in academic philosophy. A central aim of such scholars has been to diffuse tensions between
Aquinas and modern notions of women’s equality and their supposed
nature by extracting usable elements from Thomist philosophy. For
example, Aquinas is quite clear that the subjection of women to men
is not for the beneﬁt of men; individual humans are not ‘‘things’’ in
the material world. The symbolism of Eve being made from the rib
of Adam is seen by Aquinas to conﬁrm that woman’s relationship to
man is neither one of authority nor one of servility.
For some modern interpreters of Aquinas, this underpins a recognition that, within the marriage relation, women are neither sexual objects nor objects of ownership. Interpreters have pointed to the way

18 •

ARENDT, HANNAH

that the Aquinian marriage is a deeper relation based on the recognition of the spiritual value of both partners: each is the particular creation of God in his image. Thus, it is claimed that Aquinas’s
philosophy of women is not necessarily antithetical to some presentday feminist views. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
ARENDT, HANNAH (1906–1975). Hannah Arendt was born in Germany of Jewish parentage. As an undergraduate, she studied ﬁrst at
the University of Marburg and later at the University of Freiburg. She
received her Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Heidelberg.
Arendt left Germany for Paris, where she lived from 1933 to 1941,
and then emigrated to the United States. She became a naturalized
U.S. citizen in 1951. Arendt’s best-known work is Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil (1965).
Arendt’s philosophical writings are of increasing interest to political philosophers because many of the subjects with which she engaged philosophically, such as identity, race, nationalism, and
imperialism, have come to the forefront of recent feminist work. Indeed, since September 11, 2001, the importance of Arendt’s work on
the moral and political nature of violence has been thrown into sharp
relief for feminist discussions of war, violence, and human evil.
It is important to recognize that feminism did not interest Arendt;
in fact, she held that what she called the ‘‘Woman Problem’’ was not
an appropriate part of the political sphere. Earlier feminist interpretations of Arendt, those from the 1970s and early 1980s, tend to be
more critical than celebratory of her political philosophy. Adrienne
Rich, for example, says that Arendt’s 1958 work The Human Condition ‘‘embodies the tragedy of a female mind nourished on male
ideology.’’ Often underpinning these earlier interpretations is the assumption that, as a woman, Arendt has a political and moral responsibility to make women, and women’s issues, a part of her political
theorizing. More recently, with the questioning of identity-based politics, some feminist interpreters are now ﬁnding Arendt’s work potentially fruitful precisely because of its resistance to gendered
dichotomizations.
ARISTOTLE (384–322 BCE). Aristotle of Stagira was a member of
Plato’s Academy for twenty years; eventually he founded a philo-

ARISTOTLE •

19

sophical school of his own, the Lyceum. He is considered the originator of philosophy as a discipline formed of distinct subject areas or
ﬁelds. Aristotle’s contributions to the areas of ethics and politics, the
study of nature, and what can be called his philosophy of mind have
been of the most interest to feminist philosophers. His contributions
to logic and rhetoric have thus far generated little work.
Feminist philosophical critique of Aristotle’s work started in the
early 1980s; much of this early criticism was focused on the sexist
thinking in speciﬁc texts or areas of his philosophy. Most famously,
Aristotle claimed that woman is a mutilated male (Generation of Animals, 737a 27–28). Another particular area of interest at that time
was whether Aristotle’s discussions of sex difference may be at the
roots of sexism in the philosophical and scientiﬁc traditions; many of
Aristotle’s ideas have become so incorporated into the tradition that
they have set the hidden foundation for philosophical thinking itself.
The central question for feminist philosophers in examining Aristotle’s works for sexism has been whether his discussions of the
moral, physical, intellectual, and reproductive nature of women
can, and should be, separated from the rest of his thought, or whether
they mutually inform and support each other. It is certainly clear that
Aristotle considered a study of sex difference an important part of
philosophy, and it was a discussion that occurred throughout many
of his philosophical works. For these reasons, Aristotle’s philosophy
of women has been the subject of a fair amount of feminist analysis.
In essence, Aristotle’s worldview is functionalist: all aspects of nature contribute in some way to a single good through fulﬁlling their
speciﬁc function. Moreover, each aspect of nature has its particular
place within a hierarchy of ruler and ruled. For Aristotle the amount
of the element of ‘‘heat’’ in an animal is the cause of its relative perfection or development; women were colder than men, and thus inferior or defective. Moreover, Aristotle concludes that, as they are
inferior beings, women only provide a passive, and thus subordinate,
contribution to generation.
Aristotle holds that the soul is the form of the body and that differences in one correspond to differences in the other. Thus the apparent
physical inferiority of women is an indicator of inferiority in their
souls; Aristotle claims that women are, for example, more emotional
and less truthful than men. In this way, Aristotle was the ﬁrst to sys-

20 •

ARISTOTLE

tematize trends in earlier ancient Greek thought that held man was
superior or primary to woman. Aristotle’s analysis of difference inﬂuenced philosophical and scientiﬁc thought until the seventeenth
century, although his actual explanation was often modiﬁed.
Thomas Aquinas, for example, places women’s imperfection within
a Christian orthodoxy, arguing that God created it speciﬁcally for
the purpose of generation.
Aristotle’s account of the role and status of women is in the Politics. Here Aristotle assumes that the male-female relations he observed among his contemporaries are the way they are because each
sex is performing its speciﬁc function, and thus these unequal relations are natural. The function of women is to reproduce more citizens and to maintain the household. Moreover, the fulﬁllment of
function, and thus one’s place in the hierarchy, is understood as a
normative good. Aristotle is notoriously unclear about men’s speciﬁc
function within male-female relations in the household. His views
are further clouded because he proceeds from his observations of social roles as indicators of proper functioning to a theory about the
nature of the sexes that accounts for these roles.
Aristotle holds that the function of reason is the human function,
yet men are to rule in virtue of their superiority in reason: their capacity for deliberation. Women have this deliberative faculty, but it
has no authority, nor can they offer reliable judgments. Thus, Aristotle explains, men rule women just as the intellect naturally rules the
appetites; indeed, he takes the latter rule to prove somehow the former. Moreover, women’s different function and inferior rationality
needs correspondingly different virtues, namely the virtue of obedience. In this way, Aristotle offers a systematization of the notions of
sex-differentiated virtue and ethical pluralism, which had been prevalent in earlier Greek thought. Furthermore, he is seen by feminist philosophers as originating the conception that ‘‘maleness’’ is both the
norm and a mark of superiority in both the public and private spheres.
Feminist philosophers have not just criticized Aristotle for the blatant sexism contained within his philosophical work. For some, the
ultimate problem with Aristotle’s view of sex differences in rationality and virtue is that it excludes women from attaining the good life:
the life of the person who reasons well, and thus who possesses all
the virtues. Given that on Aristotle’s own account virtue is not in-

ASTELL, MARY •

21

nate, but the result of education and habit, this exclusion is not a
necessary one. The question then is whether this exclusion is one of
expediency: women’s roles are a component of the freedom and
comfort needed by men to live the good life. If this is the case, then
the construction of Aristotle’s moral philosophy in the Nicomachean
Ethics (his central work on ethics) may require the subordination of
women.
Despite the inveterate sexism of Aristotle’s philosophy, there has
been some work on possible feminist reconstructions of his work. Aristotle’s moral philosophy has thus far generated the most interest as
a possible resource for feminist philosophy; in particular, it has been
argued that Aristotelian virtue ethics may provide the necessary theoretical framework to develop an ethics of care. Both ethics share an
emphasis on moral particulars over universals and on the inclusion
of emotions in moral thinking.
Care ethics, however, is sometimes criticized by feminist philosophers for its lack of a political or teleological framework, as it builds
its theory solely on observations of sex differences in moral thinking.
What is signiﬁcant about Aristotelian ethics is that it is developed
within a framework of a political and moral ‘‘good life’’; thus it could
provide a theoretical model for theorizing about care. See also
CANON, CRITIQUE OF; PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
ASTELL, MARY (1666–1731). English philosopher Mary Astell
came from a merchant family. Little is known about the sources of
her education and how she supported herself during her adult years.
During her lifetime, Astell was a respected contributor to philosophical debates on metaphysics and religion. Her 1695 work Letters
Concerning the Love of God was a collection of her correspondence
on religious issues with the Malebranchean John Norris.
A Serious Proposal to the Ladies for the Advancement of Their
True and Greatest Interest was her ﬁrst published work and is also
her best-known feminist work. The ﬁrst part, published in 1694, proposes educational communities where women can escape the intellectual restrictions placed on them by social custom and poor
education. In these communities women were to study the same subjects as men, rather than being educated only in household manage-

22 •

AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO

ment. The women were not to stay there permanently, but to return
to the world properly equipped to live in it.
Having argued for equality of education for women in the ﬁrst
part of her proposal, Astell focuses in the second part, published in
1697, on a more philosophical discussion of the search for knowledge and the nature of human rationality. In this second work she
draws on the views of both the seventeenth-century English philosopher John Locke and René Descartes. Most signiﬁcantly for the
equality of women, Astell argues in this work that every individual
has the capacity to think rationally and to understand truth, regardless
of their opportunities for education.
Some Reﬂections upon Marriage, published in 1700, is Astell’s
third and ﬁnal work of feminist philosophy. Here Astell critiques the
oppressive nature of marriage, for she saw that, once married, her
contemporaries were under the power of their husbands according to
both law and custom.
AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO (354–430). Augustine of Hippo (Aurelius
Augustinus) was born in Thagaste (Algeria), then part of the Roman
Empire. During the early part of his life he taught rhetoric. He became a priest in 391. His conversion to Christianity in 386 is described in his famous autobiographical Confessions (Confessiones),
in which he describes the effect of his reading of books by Platonists
that enabled him to understand and accept central doctrines of the
church. This melding of the Judeo-Christian tradition with Greek
philosophical tradition made Augustine a dominant inﬂuence in
medieval philosophical thought. Some of his most famous works include On the Teacher (De Magistro, 389), On the Literal Meaning of
Genesis (De Genesi ad Litteram, 401–415), and On the City of God
(De Civitate Dei, 413–427).
For feminist philosophers Augustine is of some interest because of
his transmittal of Neoplatonic dualism, speciﬁcally for the way that
this played out in his philosophy of women. Augustine held that humans are both body and soul; however, his accompanying intellectualism meant that (contemplative) reason is the way to knowledge;
the soul is thus superior to, and the guardian of, the body.
In Augustine’s interpretation of Genesis 1:27, Adam and Eve were
created in the image of God: they possessed reason. Thus, in relation

AUSTRALIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN •

23

to God, the two sexes are spiritually equal. This interpretation was
progressive for its time, and Augustine is arguing against those who
held that the subordination of women was justiﬁed by their supposedly lesser rationality. Moreover, it also meant that Augustine refutes
the claim that the Fall was somehow the fault of the nature of woman;
rather, he saw it as a failure of the control of reason over the body.
What is problematic for feminist philosophers with Augustine’s
interpretation of Genesis is that woman represents the body (the subordinate element), whereas man represents reason (the authoritative
element). In her relation to man, therefore, the subordination of
woman is both justiﬁed and natural. Moreover, this may also entail
that, even though woman did not cause the Fall, she (as body) comes
to symbolize the Fall. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
AUSTRALIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. No speciﬁc way of
philosophizing can be called Australian. However, some feminist
philosophers working in Australia have claimed that there are enough
similarities in their work, especially in their engagement with both
the history of philosophy and the history of their country, to form a
loose outline of an Australian feminist philosophy. This philosophy
does not ﬁt easily into the two categories—postmodern and analytic—that are usually applied to feminist philosophy within the
United States and the United Kingdom.
The work of Australian feminist philosophers of history has been
highly inﬂuential on anglophone philosophy, in particular, for the
ways these philosophers examine women’s exclusion from philosophy using the lenses of historically contextualized metaphors and social practices. Among the signiﬁcant contributions of Australian
philosophers to feminist study of the history of philosophy are their
claims that there is no one feminist position from which to engage
with history and that feminist philosophers must recognize that their
position is not always one of opposition to a politically problematic
history; rather, it may also be one of collusion.
One of the most distinctive elements in Australian philosophy is
the use of seventeenth-century philosopher Benedict de Spinoza’s
monism as the framework for philosophical thought. This approach
is associated in particular with Genevieve Lloyd and Moira Gatens.
The strength of this framework is that it is not grounded in a clear

24 •

AUTONOMY

reason/passion division, and thus provides an alternative to René
Descartes’s problematic dualist division of these two elements of
human nature. There are two particular strengths of this approach.
First, it leads to a different conceptualizing of reason that need not
be formed from a rejection of Cartesian dualism; thus this new conception need not even begin from the, albeit rejected, Cartesian
framework. Second, it has possibilities for reconceptions of sex difference that, like a Spinozistic conception of reason, need not have
an initial grounding in dualist categories.
AUTONOMY. The concept of autonomy is a central one for moral,
political, and legal philosophy. The term is hard to pin down precisely, and may vary according to the particular ﬁeld in which it is
used, but it can be usefully deﬁned as self-determination. Generally
speaking, autonomy has been a double-edged sword for feminist philosophers. Autonomy understood as self-determination seems an important ideal. However, the concept has also historically served to
exclude women, as autonomy is conceived as a characteristic of rational beings, and women have not always been accorded full or
equal rationality by canonical philosophers.
In the 1970s, the main focus of feminist philosophical work on
autonomy was on identifying the political and social barriers to women’s development of autonomy. By the 1980s, there was a shift of
emphasis toward examining the concept itself, in particular for its
radical individualism. Feminist philosophers have pointed to the
problematic nature of the character ideal of the autonomous person
as an individual: one who is self-sufﬁcient and independent to the
point that ‘‘he’’ cannot acknowledge the value of friendship or of caring for others. Indeed, the notion of community or cooperation with
others is threatening to this individual. Other feminist philosophers
have argued that traditional ideals of autonomy are masculinist in
that they lead to the valuing of aspects of human moral life that have
been traditionally identiﬁed as masculine, such as independence,
over those aspects traditionally identiﬁed as feminine, such as nurturing. More radical critiques have been provided by postmodern
feminists who reject the notion of autonomy—as it requires an untenable notion of a uniﬁed coherent self—and by feminist critics who
argue that there is a tension between this notion of uniﬁed self and

BACON, FRANCIS •

25

the way in which the identities of individuals are constructed from
their membership in various groups.
Feminist philosophers have not necessarily argued that the notion
of autonomy be abandoned altogether, but they have shown that it
needs to be reconceived. The different variations of a reconceived
feminist notion of autonomy are often called ‘‘relational’’ or ‘‘social’’
autonomy. All these reconceptions are grounded in the view that the
autonomous self is developed within and by its context of interpersonal relationships, as well as by social determinants such as gender
and race. These relational or social approaches to autonomy do not
simply aim to offer a reconception of the notion; they may also explore the shift in emphasis on aspects of human life that this reconception brings. These reconceptions may, for example, also provide
an analysis of the ways that oppressive social relationships and
structures hinder the development of autonomy. See also SUBJECTIVITY.

–B–
BACKLASH. The term backlash has been used to describe anti-feminist resistance to the women’s movement and its achievements, a resistance that has been present throughout the history of the women’s
movement. The term is usually associated with Susan Faludi’s 1991
book Backlash: The Undeclared War against Women.
BACON, FRANCIS (1561–1626). English philosopher Francis Bacon
was under the patronage of James I and held a variety of court positions. Bacon was at the forefront of the intellectual reform of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Indeed, he is known as a ‘‘father of
modern science’’ for his origination of the inductive method and the
modern view of technology: rational theorizing is combined with
empirical practice to serve humankind. The work of Bacon is signiﬁcant for feminist philosophers for two reasons: ﬁrst, because of
his historical role in the development of the view of nature, science,
and knowledge that underpins modern Western philosophy; second,
for what they see as his particular, foundational contribution to the

26 •

BACON, FRANCIS

male bias of this tradition. Bacon’s best-known works include Novum
Organum (1620) and New Atlantis (1624).
Bacon offered a new, mechanistic vision of the world as one of
rational, ordered, divinely given laws that govern matter, a vision that
remains the dominant view in Western thought. His view entailed the
rejection of the previous notion of nature, which came from the ancient Greeks, as organic matter possessing internal principles of
self-directed change and motion. Instead, in Bacon’s notion of nature
as a machine, change and motion come from external causes. Thus
humans could effect change in nature for the good of humankind, and
thus science becomes a moral as well as an epistemological project.
With this shift in the conceptualization of the subject of scientiﬁc
study came an accompanying shift in the method of attaining knowledge. Bacon rejected the traditional conception of science, which
originated with the Greeks, that scientiﬁc knowledge is purely the
product of philosophical contemplation and speculation; he held instead that rational theorizing must work in tandem with practical experimentation. However, this new relation of experimentation, and
the capacity of the knower to effect change, brought with it a conception of knowledge as achieved through control of nature, and ultimately of knowledge itself as control. Furthermore, this new relation
entails a separation of human/knower from nature.
It is Bacon’s new conception of scientiﬁc knowledge as dominance or control, and its accompanying conception of a separate, passive, and therefore exploitable nature, that is the subject of feminist
critique, rather than any one particular work, argument, or theory.
Even if the scientiﬁc knowledge that is generated can beneﬁt humans,
the process is antithetical to feminist goals. This is in part because of
the hidden reliance of scientiﬁc knowledge on power relations and in
part because of the reality of who will be able to wield that power:
this power will be more readily available to members of socially privileged groups.
Feminist philosophers have often focused on the problematic gendered imagery that is part of Bacon’s writings. Throughout Bacon’s
work, he relies on sexual imagery of the control of men over women
to elucidate the ‘‘proper’’ control of man over nature. The scientist
plays the role of seducer, and (if necessary) rapist, in search of the
prize of possession of a female nature who must then give up her

BARRE, FRANÇOIS POULLAIN DE LA •

27

secrets. Given that Bacon’s actual theory need not entail his vision
of scientiﬁc knowledge as control, this imagery may work covertly
to support this vision by making the domination of man over nature
a ‘‘natural’’ or ‘‘proper’’ relation. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF;
DUALISM; IMAGINARY, PHILOSOPHICAL.
BAIER, ANNETTE. See HUME, DAVID.
BARRE, FRANÇOIS POULLAIN DE LA (1647–1723). The French
writer and philosopher François Poullain de la Barre (Poulain de la
Barre) wrote three treatises on the equality of the sexes: On the
Equality of the Two Sexes, A Physical and Moral Discourse Which
Shows the Importance of Overcoming Prejudice (1673) (which was
translated in its 1676 English version as The Woman as Good as the
Man, or the Equality of Both Sexes); Treatise on the Education of
Women, with Regard to the Conduct of the Mind in the Sciences and
Morals (1674); and Treatise on the Excellence of Men (1679). This
last treatise repeats his earlier arguments, but it takes the form of an
ironic self-refutation.
Barre is of particular interest to feminist philosophy because of his
use of the philosophical principles of René Descartes to argue for
the equality of women. Barre was not a philosopher in the sense that
he produced systems or theories; rather, he aimed to show how
Cartesian principles could be used to produce social reform, in particular the reform of the condition of women. This reform is produced through the way that the Cartesian method dispels the errors
of unreasoned thinking that underpin and maintain the inequality of
women. Barre uses the method to show that female inequality is simply a case of prejudice based on social custom; it is not a fundamental
truth about human nature. Furthermore, he argues, if he can show
that the Cartesian method could be used to refute what he describes
as the oldest and most deeply ingrained prejudice, then it follows that
nothing should be taken as true without proper examination. Once
the prejudice against women has been refuted, it can be seen that any
other prejudice can also be refuted.
Barre claims that the initial establishment of the inequality of
women was an arbitrary decision based on women’s different reproductive capacities. This then became institutionalized through laws

28 •

BEAUTY

and customs, to the point that it appears to be dictated through natural
law or directly by God. Barre suggests, moreover, that the custom of
the inequality was further reinforced by male desire for dominance,
although he also holds that this desire is not natural either. Having
established that the inferiority of women has no foundation in human
nature, Barre claims that women should be able to assume central
roles in the public sphere, such as professor, or in government.
BEAUTY. See AESTHETICS; BODY.
BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE (1908–1986). French philosopher Simone
de Beauvoir was born in Paris, France. She studied philosophy at the
Sorbonne and the École Normale Supérieure; she completed the
agrégation in 1923 and began teaching philosophy. Beauvoir began
writing full time in 1944 and wrote essays and novels—as well as the
autobiographical Memoirs of a Dutiful Daughter (1958)—in addition
to her philosophical works.
Beauvoir’s three central philosophical works are The Ethics of Ambiguity (1947), The Second Sex (1949), and The Coming of Age
(1960). This last work is one of the few philosophical analyses of
age discrimination, but this has remained a neglected ﬁeld in feminist
philosophy. In The Ethics of Ambiguity, Beauvoir offers an existential ethics grounded in the notion that humans are free. This notion
of freedom is one of individual transcendence through action, speciﬁcally action that can work for the freedom of others, and the rejection of oppression. For Beauvoir, it is our ethical responsibility to
take up this freedom. Thus far, there has been little feminist philosophical interest in her work on ethics.
The Second Sex is Beauvoir’s only work of feminist philosophy;
it is a landmark work offering an existentialist approach to both the
historical and the contemporary situation of women. Beauvoir holds
that the liberation of women can only be achieved through economic
change, individual transcendence, and socialism. Despite the foundational role of her work for feminist thought, Beauvoir, although involved in other political causes of her time, did not initially count
herself as a feminist. In 1972, however, she joined the women’s liberation movement, as she no longer believed that socialism alone was
adequate to change the condition of women.

BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE •

29

Beauvoir’s work was neglected until the explosion of feminist
thought in the 1970s. Despite her role as a foremother of feminism
in general, it was not until the 1980s that she became of interest to
the speciﬁc discipline of feminist philosophy. Her work has been examined both for its philosophical thinking about gender, and for its
role in the existentialist tradition. She also initiated a philosophical
approach that was reproduced by a later more formalized feminist
critique of the philosophical canon. Even though Beauvoir does not
direct criticism at the canon speciﬁcally, throughout The Second Sex
she analyses what has been said about women by canonical philosophers in the context of her main discussion of women’s situation.
Beauvoir’s well-known life-long friendship with Jean-Paul Sartre has affected both the analysis of her existentialist philosophy and
its reception. Initially, her philosophical thinking in The Second Sex
was seen as little more than an application of Sartre’s existentialism,
speciﬁcally the thought of Being and Nothingness (1943). This interpretation was reinforced by a few statements made by Beauvoir
herself that this was indeed the case. More recently, feminist philosophers have argued that the relationship between Beauvoir and Sartre
was more complex, with neither having a ﬁxed role as teacher or
originator.
The issue of replication was an important contributing factor to
Beauvoir’s exclusion from the philosophical canon. By the 1970s,
Beauvoir was rarely mentioned in works on existentialism or French
philosophy. However, in retrospect, it is also clear that the feminism
in her philosophy was the other central factor in the deliberate exclusion of her work from the canon. Even though feminist philosophers
have been interested in the introduction of Beauvoir to the canon, the
question of her originality remains a problematic issue. This is further compounded by the fact that Sartrean existentialism has sometimes been critiqued for the masculinist nature of the ideal of
transcendence, a notion that is a foundation of Beauvoir’s analysis of
women’s condition in The Second Sex. Sartrean transcendence is, in
effect, transcendence from women or the female body; thus women
can only achieve transcendence through a psychic rejection of their
own embodiment. Indeed, Beauvoir problematically holds that women’s reproductive capacities limit their potential for transcendence.
In The Second Sex, Beauvoir utilizes Sartre’s concept of the

30 •

BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE

‘‘Other’’ as well as his notion of a self that is both a transcending
‘‘authentic’’ self and a ﬁxed immanent self. The former self is free,
and here freedom is understood in terms of a continual process of
self-realization that characterizes this self. This authentic self is reﬂective consciousness, but this consciousness is of the unchanging
self. Thus, even though the authentic self must transcend the unchanging self, it still requires it. This relation plays out in the relation
between self and others. The ‘‘looking’’ subject self deﬁnes itself in
relation to the ‘‘looked at’’ Other. There is a struggle of ‘‘looking’’
subject and ‘‘looked at’’ object, each resisting the subjugating look
of the other, which both limits the being of the object and produces
the transcendence of the subject.
Beauvoir extends this notion to gender relations. She claims that,
in this unique case, women are permanently object. Furthermore, she
argues that women do not genuinely struggle against their position as
object. Women have already admitted defeat, accepting instead the
privileges of the protection and status they gain from men. In this
way, women not only forego transcendence from ‘‘objectivity’’ but
fail in their ethical duty as individuals. In this move from an existential analysis of the individual to an existentialist analysis of culture
that is also both political and ethical, Beauvoir adds something
unique to existentialist philosophy.
Feminist theorists in general have often treated Beauvoir’s analysis
of the condition of women as something that can be separated from
her existentialism. Indeed a criticism often made of Beauvoir is that
her existentialist framework is overly intellectual, and thus unworkable. Feminist philosophers, on the other hand, have treated Beauvoir’s existentialism as integral to her work on women. However, the
central problems in her work that have been found by feminist philosophers are seen as a result of its existentialist framework. For Beauvoir’s critics, her conceptualization of freedom, and its location in
the individual, is the central cause of the lack of praxis in her work.
They argue that her acceptance of the normative dualist hierarchy of
transcendence over immanence, and its apparently masculine nature,
is not only problematic itself but leads to a devaluing of women’s
capacity for reproduction and a potential rejection of the body. Moreover, this self/other dialectic leads to a false universalism of women/
the Other. This is further compounded by the fact that Beauvoir iden-

BIOETHICS •

31

tiﬁes the experience of women with the experience of the white
bourgeoisie.
In contrast, some feminist philosophers have argued for the potential of Beauvoir’s work for their theorizing. Some philosophers, for
example, have pointed to the way that Beauvoir’s account of the female body does not in fact attribute its passivity, or its role in preventing women from achieving individual transcendence, to biology;
rather, she holds that these characteristics are the result of its social
construction. Beauvoir thus can provide a resource for some of the
current feminist work in body politics. See also SUBJECTIVITY.
BINARY OPPOSITION. See DUALISM.
BIOETHICS. Bioethics was established as a subﬁeld of feminist ethics by the early 1990s; many of the concerns of feminist ethics are
relevant for feminist bioethics, such as questions of autonomy and
the ethical importance of care. Feminist bioethics provides both a
critique of, and an alternative to, mainstream bioethics: the study of
moral issues raised by health and health care. It provides a feminist
perspective on standard bioethical issues such as abortion; it also
allows for the introduction of new concerns into the ﬁeld of bioethics, such as eating disorders. The vast majority of work in this area
has been done within the analytic tradition (broadly conceived), but
there have been a few postmodernist approaches to the development
of a feminist bioethics.
Feminist bioethics is committed to an examination of the moral
issues of health and health care through the multiple lenses of race,
gender, class, disability, sexual orientation, and age. However, gender usually functions as its pivotal element, given such facts as that
the largest number of health care workers are women; the majority
of patients are women; women are disproportionately represented
among the poor; research has focused on men or male health issues;
and women often provide the invisible care provider services at home
that support the health care system.
While proponents of mainstream bioethics recognize the existence
of inequalities between patients and health care providers, and the
importance of contextual decision-making, feminist bioethics is

32 •

BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM

based on a commitment to the removal of such inequalities and to an
analysis of the social and political contexts of bioethical concerns.
Moreover, unlike mainstream bioethics, which tends toward framing bioethical concerns in terms of individuals and often focuses on
the moral dilemmas of those in power (doctors, health care administrators), feminist bioethics emphasizes the inclusion of the moral, political, and health care needs and perspectives of groups, particularly
those with the least power.
BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM. Biological determinism is the concept that physiological differences between the sexes determine the
different social and cultural roles of men and women as well as the
relations between men and women. Most feminists dismiss biological
determinism, typically claiming that psychological, social, and cultural differences between the sexes are the product of socialization.
Some feminists, however, hold that there are valuable characteristics,
such as a lack of aggressiveness, which are the product of female
physiology in some way.
Historically, the notion of biological determinism has been an important one for feminist philosophy. Deterministic arguments have
often been employed by those who wish to preserve male social and
cultural dominance as well as traditional female roles. The ﬁrst sustained attack on the notion came in Mary Wollstonecraft’s 1792
work A Vindication of the Rights of Woman, in which she argued
that the behaviors and traits of her female contemporaries were the
product of their environment and education. A central argument
used by Wollstonecraft to support her claim is that military men of
that time, due to their particular environment, behaved in many of
the same ways as women. These men, for example, focused much of
their attention on their appearance and on their romantic conquests.
Biological determinism has ceased to be a signiﬁcant issue, as it
rests on simplistic notions of human biology and sex distinctions that
have been challenged by feminist philosophers since the 1980s. One
central challenge of this type has been the claim that what is called
biological nature is itself socially constructed. See also BODY; CULTURAL FEMINISM; ESSENTIALISM; GENDER; HUMAN NATURE.

BLACK FEMINIST ETHICS •

33

BLACK FEMINIST ETHICS. Whether there is a history of black
feminist ethics is a complicated question. Black feminist philosophers, writers, and activists certainly discussed the values and virtues of black women. Indeed, the nineteenth-century philosopher
Anna Julia Cooper even held that the moral inﬂuence of black
women was their contribution to political change. While none of
these thinkers could be described as offering anything that could be
called an ethical system, it can also be claimed that there is an oral
ethical tradition within the African American community, a tradition
that is reﬂected in literature and popular culture. This tradition can
be described as one of ethical knowledge that offers shared values
and an understanding of the black community.
Most of the work in feminist ethics has been done by white Western women. However, in the 1980s, work that is an identiﬁably black
feminist ethics started to be produced, mainly in the United States.
Its creators may not always accept the designation of ‘‘feminist’’ due
to the history of racism within the feminist movement and feminist
theory. In the cases where black feminist philosophers do categorize
their work as an explicitly black feminist ethics, this functions as a
political statement that not only asserts a black female identity but
also provides a critique of the ways that dominant ethical thinking
ignores the realities of black existence. These philosophers may
claim, for example, that the ideal in the dominant tradition of the
moral agent as autonomous requires a level of personal freedom,
one that does not reﬂect the lived experiences of black women.
Alternatively, other philosophers have produced a systematized
ethical thought as a component of an overall philosophical theory.
Two main reasons can be identiﬁed for this. First, it is not always
helpful to categorize work in ethics separately from black feminist
philosophy more generally, as this may serve to fragment the foundational goal of social justice. Second, analyses of injustice, and calls
for justice, cannot be made separately from a properly formulated
ethics of accountability.
While there is no one way of thinking that is black feminist ethics,
there are shared themes within work that falls under this rubric. First,
the experiences of black women offer a central epistemic and ethical
resource. For some philosophers, these shared experiences can offer
a moral knowledge for black women to survive, and live well, within

34 •

BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY

a racist society. This knowledge, for example, can help individual
black women to learn to develop the speciﬁc virtues, such as selfrespect, needed for this moral and political task. This picture of situated, concrete individuals, and their particular virtues, also entails a
critique of the dominant moral picture of the universality of virtues
and the individualism of moral agents. Some black feminist philosophers also argue that the experiences of black women can provide a
resource for the black community as a whole, as they can lead to an
understanding of the way that this community functions and could
develop. An ethics of care is another common theme in black feminist ethical thought. This can be framed either as foundational to the
desire for social justice or more explicitly politicized as a direct way
to effect social change. Another shared theme is the rejection of derogatory stereotypes both of the sexual morality of black women and
of black women as morally one-dimensional, ﬁtting them only for
servility.
Despite the fact that black feminist ethics is often seen as a particular subﬁeld of the more general ﬁeld of feminist ethics, it should not
be assumed that it only comes out of feminist ethical thinking. Black
feminist ethical thinking also comes from the traditions of black
theological ethics, and African American communities, as well as
from African ways of thinking about individuals and communities.
See also FEMININE ETHICS; RACE AND RACISM.
BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY. Work in black feminist philosophy has, thus far, been conﬁned to the United States. The line between black feminist philosophy and black feminist social critics is
blurred; the categorization of a theorist as either a social critic or a
philosopher often depends on the context in which this theorist’s
work is being considered. Whether they are categorized as philosophers or not, Patricia Hill Collins, Angela Davis, bell hooks, and
Audre Lorde are among the foremost U.S. black feminist theorists
who have had a signiﬁcant impact on feminist philosophy.
The term black feminist philosophy is hard to apply with any speciﬁcity. The contributions of black feminist philosophers to political
and social philosophy have gained the most attention, especially for
their work on analyses of oppression, racism and race. This has
meant, however, that black feminists’ contributions to the other tradi-

BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY •

35

tional areas of philosophy—epistemology and ethics, in particular—
have been seen in a piecemeal fashion, rather than as being based
on some common philosophical standpoint. In addition, within the
academic discipline of philosophy, black feminist philosophers as
well as philosophers from other minority racial groups have remained
on the margins not only of mainstream philosophy, but even of feminist philosophy. These factors have made it difﬁcult to assess
whether or not there is an identiﬁable ﬁeld of speciﬁcally black feminist philosophy.
There are few records of any history of black feminist intellectual
thought. Black women’s economic and social oppressions greatly
limited opportunities for the type of education they needed to write
what would pass, under mainstream criteria, as intellectual work.
One of the few black feminist intellectuals from the nineteenth century was Anna Julia Cooper, who can be seen as offering one of the
earliest articulations of a black feminist philosophy. Cooper’s work
contains the hallmarks of black feminism: she critiques the sexism in
the black advancement movement as well as the racism in the women’s movement. Cooper discussed these issues within an analytic
framework on race, and a philosophy of education. Many of the elements identiﬁed by Cooper as central for the liberation of both men
and women of color remain shared elements of modern black feminist thought: the examination of sexism in the black community; the
examination of racism in the feminist community; and the analysis
of race and racism.
Central to black feminist thought is the goal of identiﬁcation of the
way that the systems of oppression of race, class, and gender interlock. These systems affect women in different ways; thus the experience of sexism of women of color and of white women is not the
same: there is no ‘‘women’s’’ experience of oppression. Moreover,
there is no position from which women of color are able to examine
their situation as ‘‘women’’; women are women of color, workingclass women, and so on. Indeed, a central critique that black feminists make of feminist theorizing in general (white-dominated feminism) is that the social subject ‘‘women’’ only means white women.
This then serves to marginalize women of color, and their speciﬁc
concerns and experiences are rendered invisible. In a fundamental

36 •

BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY

sense, these concerns and experiences are not counted as part of the
oppression of women.
Black feminist theorists also criticize (white-dominated) feminist
theorizing for its failure to recognize that racism does not just serve
to oppress women of color; it also functions to beneﬁt white women.
These beneﬁts can be purely practical in that women of color tend to
perform the lower-paid service jobs that enable middle-class white
women to focus on their careers. They can also be political; white
women are in a better position to attain the social and economic privilege of white men if they are able to show that they are closer to
white men than other women. Overall the black feminist critique has
had a signiﬁcant impact on feminist thought, including feminist philosophy; most feminist theorists now attend to differences among
women.
Black feminist theorizing in general, and black feminist philosophy more speciﬁcally, are not simply critique. The development of
black feminist ethics and black feminist epistemology are not simply projects that demonstrate the omission of the perspectives and
experiences of women of color from these subject areas (feminist and
non-feminist alike). Instead, black feminist ethics and epistemology
provide alternative ways of talking about and conceptualizing both
knowledge and moral agency. Patricia Hill Collins has been in the
forefront of the development of these projects. For Collins, the experience of black women allows them an epistemically privileged
standpoint from which to identify not only truths about black women,
but also the creation of new ways to think about criteria for the truth
of knowledge claims. Historically, black women have been the objects of knowledge for other knowers; to become subjects or producers of their own knowledge is empowering.
For black women, truth is measured against shared experiences,
and the function of knowledge is fundamentally practical: knowledge
of survival in a racist society. This shared knowledge provides a
basis for both political identity and political action. For Collins, assessment of these knowledge claims for their validity occurs through
dialogue within a community; this is something she claims has its
roots in African oral tradition. This is in stark contrast to traditional
epistemology, which holds that knowledge must be objective and
universal, not based on individual experience or agreed upon truth.

BLACKWELL, ANTOINETTE BROWN •

37

Moreover, in the traditional view, knowledge is also knowledge for
its own sake, not just for its practical use.
Another central difference between Collins’s epistemology and
that of mainstream philosophy is that the former is not value neutral.
For Collins, knowledge claims are also assessed in relation to the integrity of the person making the claims, for this person is morally
accountable for the claims. In this way, epistemology blends into ethics; the separation between the two ﬁelds of traditional philosophy is
neither productive nor relevant for black women. Collins identiﬁes
three main elements of the ethics necessary for a black feminist epistemology: the development of a sense of self as a unique individual,
one with a capacity for empathy, and the acceptance of the epistemic
validity of the emotions.
Despite its political and epistemological strength, this type of approach to black feminist thought has been criticized. It appears to
rest on the essentialist (and thus problematic) assumption that black
women have a shared group identity; this then functions to make their
differences unimportant. See also CARE, ETHICS OF; FEMINIST
ETHICS.
BLACKWELL, ANTOINETTE BROWN (1825–1921). American
philosopher Antoinette Brown Blackwell was born and raised in New
York State. Blackwell studied theology at Oberlin College in Ohio,
and in 1853 she was the ﬁrst woman to be ordained in a major religious denomination in America. After leaving Oberlin, she worked
on the lecture circuit and became involved with the women’s rights
movement and other movements for social reform.
Blackwell’s 1875 work The Sexes Throughout Nature is her main
contribution to feminist philosophy. She believed this collection of
essays would provide a foundation for a new scientiﬁc theory of female nature. In her work, Blackwell holds to a type of cultural feminism, in that she claims the physical and psychological natures of
the two sexes are different but equal. Moreover, she identiﬁes the
oppression of women with a thwarting of their particular nature.
Central to her theory is her feminist critique of the evolutionary theories of Charles Darwin and Herbert Spencer. Blackwell argues that
Darwin and Spencer focused only on the evolution of male characteristics and, in so doing, produced a standard by which women are la-

38 •

BODY

beled as inferior. Blackwell argues instead that, throughout the
different species, females have different but equal characteristics; in
humans, for example, female endurance is equivalent to male
strength. In analyzing the physical and psychological characteristics
of humans, Blackwell does not critique the empirical data she employs. Thus she argues that the male intellect is equally balanced by
female insight, and the male instinct for sexual love is equally balanced by the female instinct for parenting, without questioning
whether these characteristics are natural.
Blackwell’s view that the two sexes have fundamentally different
natures, however, also leads to an interesting critique of the social
roles and treatment of women. She holds that each sex is adapted to
its particular function: women bear and raise children; men support
and provide for the family. She argues that the division of labor
within a family must follow this design of nature; thus men, as providers, must cook and sew for the family. She holds that for women
to take on these roles, as well as their ‘‘natural’’ role as care provider,
is a form of oppression. Similarly, preventing women from physical
or intellectual activity because they are apparently too weak for such
things also goes against their nature, and thus constitutes oppression.
See also HUMAN NATURE.
BODY. Feminists’ concern with the relation between women’s subordination and their bodies began as early as the ﬁrst wave of feminism
in the eighteenth century. Mary Wollstonecraft was the ﬁrst to recognize that the ideals of femininity were played out on women’s
bodies, through the way that they were cramped and constrained by
clothing and rules of deportment. Second wave feminists argued
that the identiﬁcation of women with their bodies was a central pillar
for, and justiﬁcation of, the male domination of women. Thus part of
the feminist call for self-determination during this time was a call for
women to take back control of their bodies, for example, by rejecting
cultural ideals of beauty, or by asserting control of their capacity for
reproduction. During the 1980s there was a trend toward an examination of the way that women were alienated from their bodies
through, for example, the way that women internalized and acted
upon norms of beauty in order to gain the attention and approval of
men.

BODY •

39

Dominant strands of thought among contemporary feminist philosophers are the examination of an apparent fear of the body within
the Western tradition and a theorizing about the body that is primarily
inﬂuenced by Luce Irigaray, Michel Foucault, and Judith Butler.
These types of thought also function to critique earlier theorists for
the way they oversimpliﬁed the body and ignored differences among
women.
The philosophical fear of and disgust with the body in the Western
philosophical tradition either comes out of, or provides the ground
for, a dualist view that the mind is superior to the body but also
requires transcendence of a hindering body for the acquisition of
knowledge. One result of this view is the exclusion of women from
the philosophical project because they are culturally associated with
the body.
Within French feminist philosophy, the complex symbolism of
their writing with the body—‘‘feminine writing’’—functions as a
criticism of the Western philosophical tradition; it is an alternative
site for the making of meaning, and developing of knowledge, that is
outside patriarchal discourse. For these thinkers, sex identity is not
produced through biology; it is the construct of patriarchal forms of
representation of women. Writing outside of this construct disrupts
the male order of language and knowledge and thus can challenge
the dualistic thinking that is the dominant structure of the Western
tradition.
The dominant trend in theorizing about the body comes out of
postmodern feminist thought. Not only does postmodernist thought
expose the way that women’s bodies are normalized—‘‘disciplined’’
—to subordinate them to the patriarchal system of power, but it also
points to the ambiguities inherent in any claim that the norms of the
feminine body oppress women. Coming out of the work of Judith
Butler is the claim that sex, not just gender, is the construct of discourse. To claim that the body is some natural, ﬁxed structure is dangerous, as this underpins the assumptions about the natural, ﬁxed
structure of sex difference that justify and form the domination of
women. Moreover, the subsequent naturalness of the existence of two
oppositional unitary sexes, and thus the assumption of a sexual attraction between complementary opposites, supports the heterosexist social system.

40 •

BUTLER, JUDITH

There is no agreement as to what would count as resistance to the
norms of the body. Some feminist philosophers claim that resistance
need not take the form of rejection but can come from working
within these norms by expanding and replaying them, either through
physical change or through decoration. The most radical example of
this kind of resistance is Orlan, the French performance artist, who
used her body as a canvas to take on different ideal facial features of
female beauty through cosmetic surgery. Other feminist philosophers, however, argue that this kind of approach fails to deal with the
fact that ideals of female beauty function to oppress different women,
such as women of color, in a different set of ways. Thus resistance
within the system of norms may implicitly replay, for example, the
racist elements of ideals of beauty. See also AESTHETICS;
HUMAN NATURE; OBJECTIFICATION; SOMATOPHOBIA.
BUTLER, JUDITH (1956– ). The work of American sociologist and
philosopher Judith Butler has had a signiﬁcant impact on feminist
theorizing about the body, gender, sex, and sexuality. Her two central works are Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity (1990) and Bodies That Matter: On the Discursive Limits of
‘‘Sex’’ (1993).
Butler’s work on gender has been the most signiﬁcant for feminist
philosophizing. She argues that gender (femininity/woman) is not
‘‘real’’; it is, instead, the construct of patriarchal discourse, and only
within the system of heterosexuality does gender identity appear coherent. Within this system, men and women are deﬁned in relation to
each other—as opposites—and thus gender identity is framed as a
relation of mutual dependence. This need for their other is constructed as a sexual need, with the result that human sexuality becomes identiﬁed as heterosexuality.
Butler’s work is controversial; some feminist philosophers claim
that it undercuts political theorizing and strategizing for women’s liberation: if there is no coherent concept of ‘‘woman,’’ there can be no
subject to liberate. See also FOUCAULT, MICHEL; LANGUAGE,
PHILOSOPHY OF.
–C–
CANON, CRITIQUE OF. The feminist critique of the canon is part of
the more general ﬁeld of feminist history of philosophy. The canon

CANON, CRITIQUE OF •

41

critique is grounded in the recognition that philosophy is, at least in
part, constructed by particular historical and cultural contexts; thus,
philosophy does not ﬁt its own ideals of objectivity and value neutrality. This recognition is not exclusive to feminist approaches to
the history of philosophy; rather, the distinguishing feature of such
approaches is their focus on the androcentric nature of these contexts and the way that gender plays out in the construction of philosophical theories and positions.
The gender bias of the philosophical enterprise surfaces in a variety of ways. It can appear directly through the exclusion of female
and feminist philosophers or through the misogynist views of canonical authors; it appears indirectly through the construction of the enterprise as inherently masculine—for example, through the
identiﬁcation of reason with ‘‘maleness.’’
The earliest feminist canon critique was undertaken in the United
States in the 1970s. Initially, the focus was on uncovering the biases
against women, or issues associated with women, within the philosophical canon. By the 1980s, it had become clear that these biases
could not be redressed by simply ‘‘adding’’ women—or their experiences, interests, and concerns—into philosophical theorizing. Feminist philosophers had recognized, instead, that gender bias was
deeply ingrained within philosophical thought: in its concepts, ideals,
and methodology.
During the 1980s, Anglo-American analytic feminist canon critique ﬁrst began to show the inﬂuence of the deconstructive readings
of texts by French feminist theorists, such as Luce Irigaray. Attention began to be paid, for example, to the way that the male-female
distinction symbolically played out in texts as well as in conceptualizations of reason and its opposites, such as desire. The 1980s was
also a period in which canon revision, through the introduction of
previously neglected women philosophers, began to take shape.
This latter project, which is still ongoing, is necessary in order to
show that philosophy has not been the sole preserve of men, and also
to offer potential foremothers for feminist philosophy.
During this period, Anglo-American feminist philosophers began
to ask the further question of whether the canon can be reconstructed,
in particular whether it can be reconstructed in such a way that it can
support a feminist philosophical enterprise. Some philosophers argue
for the outright rejection of the canon, but on the whole, Anglo-

42 •

CARE, ETHICS OF (CARE ETHICS)

American analytic feminist philosophy has tended toward the preservation of the philosophical canon. Roughly speaking, the revisionist
project uses earlier feminist critiques as a springboard to develop
new philosophical theories and perspectives. Central examples of this
type of project are some of the work in epistemology and in the philosophy of science.
CARE, ETHICS OF (CARE ETHICS). The foundation of the contemporary philosophical debate on the ethics of care, or care ethics,
can be found in the empirical work of Carol Gilligan, in particular
in her 1982 work In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and
Women’s Development. Gilligan identiﬁes two ways of thinking
about morality: an ethic of care and an ethic of justice. The latter can
be identiﬁed in many ways with traditional moral philosophy, in that
it emphasizes universalizable moral choices made by impartial, autonomous individuals, and the rights of such individuals. In contrast, an ethic of care gives moral priority to contextual and particular
decision-making, to relationships, and to the responsibilities entailed
by those relationships.
Philosophical developments of the ethics of care have focused on
exploring the possibility of providing an alternative to the ethic of
justice, one that is grounded in the moral experience of women’s
caring for others. However, the questions of whether the two ethics
are compatible, whether an adequate care ethic can be developed in
isolation from notions of justice, or whether a care ethic should replace the ethic of justice are contentious ones. Because of the association of care with women’s cultural and historical roles, some
feminist philosophers have claimed that an ethics based on care
maintains the subordination of women, as it valorizes cultural ideals
of women’s roles. Indeed, there is a concern that an emphasis on the
development of an ethics of care—as a speciﬁcally female ethic—
may ultimately serve to limit the moral agency of women: only one
type of agency (relational) will be best for them.
The introduction of the notion of care into moral discourse, however, does have something important to offer moral philosophy in
general. Care is not simply a matter of feeling or intuition; it has a
cognitive side: it is a practice that requires judgment, reason, and a
focus on particular others. In this way, care ethics can allow emo-

CAVENDISH, MARGARET •

43

tions and empathy to play a role in moral decision-making, a role
that a justice ethic explicitly excludes.
The concept of care itself is open to interpretation and analysis.
Nel Noddings, for example, holds that care talk is the native language of women. She frames care in terms not of individuals, but of
pairs—the ‘‘one caring’’ and the ‘‘cared for’’—in terms of the maternal relation. Other feminist philosophers, however, utilize a broader
conception that is a ‘‘caring for others,’’ which is not identiﬁed with
women in any particular way.
While care is often incorporated into a feminine ethics, it can also
play a part in the development of a feminist ethics: a politicized ethics. Patricia Hill Collins, for example, politicizes the notion of care
for a black feminist ethics, speciﬁcally the importance of care for
maternal practice within African American communities. One central
aspect of such care is teaching children the necessary survival skills
to live under oppression. This maternal care is not understood solely
in terms of the dyad of mother-child; responsibility for care can also
be shared within the female community. Collins sees this latter element as a challenge to capitalist notions of children as (individual)
property, and as an impetus—through shared goals of responsibility—for political activism. See also CULTURAL FEMINISM; INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT; MATERNAL ETHICS; RELATIVISM.
CAVENDISH, MARGARET (1623–1673). English philosopher Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle, was born Margaret Lucas
into a Royalist family from the minor gentry. She had little formal
education, a fact that she regretted. She held a position at the court
of Charles I and went into exile to France with the court. In France
she met the English philosopher Thomas Hobbes and the French philosophers René Descartes and Pierre Gassendi, but it is not clear
whether she had much philosophical interaction with them. Cavendish wrote plays and novels as well as natural philosophy. This philosophy is most clearly set out in three of her works: Philosophical
Letters: or, Modest Reﬂections upon Some Opinions in Natural Philosophy, Maintained by Several Famous and Learned Authors of This
Age (1644); Observations upon Experimental Philosophy (1666);
and Grounds of Natural Philosophy (1668). The Observations probably contains the clearest exposition of her philosophical thought.

44 •

CHILD-BEARING

Cavendish sets up her position in opposition to Descartes’s radical
dualism between mind and body, holding instead a type of organic
materialism. For Cavendish, nature is made of one material that she
describes as self-moving and self-knowing, as she held that matter is
both sensitive and rational. Thus matter produces it own motion: its
motion is not the result of an external cause. This also entails that
Cavendish holds there cannot be a ﬁrst cause, although she did not
lay claim to the atheism inherent in this position.
This view of nature also means that she rejected the standard notions of the time that humans should control nature, as she holds that
humans were not separable in this way. Moreover, she also rejected
the accompanying notion that humans, due to their rationality or intelligence, were superior to nature, arguing instead that their only superiority came from physical differences. Cavendish holds that even
plant-life has its own form of rationality or intelligence; however, because this rationality is dissimilar from that of humans who judge
only by their own standards, it is dismissed or unrecognized.
Cavendish’s view of nature and science is of interest to presentday feminist philosophers because of its critique of the traditional
notion that humans should control nature and because of its rejection
of a dualist and mechanist conceptualization of nature. Her natural
philosophy, however, cannot be described as a true forerunner of current approaches to either a feminine or feminist physics.
CHILD-BEARING. See REPRODUCTION, SEXUAL.
CHILDREN. See FAMILY.
CHINA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. The earliest identiﬁable
Chinese female philosopher is Pan Chao (Ban Zhao), who lived circa
45–114 and was a scholar at the imperial court. She wrote a treatise
on the education of women, Lessons for Women (Nü Jie), somewhere between 89 and 105. Pan Chao could perhaps be described as a
proto-feminist, as she offered a formulated moral system for women
grounded in Confucian ethics. Her focus was on the social order, speciﬁcally the order of the family, which was the central moral unit
for Confucianism. Pan Chao describes the virtues, such as modesty,
required for women to maintain harmony and order within the family

CHRISTIANITY •

45

unit. The relative conservativeness of this discussion is balanced by
Pan Chao’s more radical claim that women require education in order
to develop and to exercise these virtues. She speciﬁcally claims that
young girls should be educated in the same way as boys to follow the
rules of education, in accordance with the ancient ‘‘Rites.’’
On the whole, current feminist intellectual work in China is oriented toward policy-making. Some feminist theorizing is emerging,
however, which can be categorized as philosophical in its orientation.
This theorizing occurs against the background of the Marxist tradition. This tradition recognizes the gender-speciﬁc oppression of
women but does not see their liberation as a separable struggle from
the liberation of the proletariat. Some feminist theorists in China are
beginning revisionist work within this tradition, aiming to move beyond a gender-blind class analysis to one that recognizes a gendered
identity of women. Work is being done by some theorists on establishing what this amounts to, and whether this could constitute a vantage point from which to uncover—and correct—male bias in our
understanding of the world. The concept of ‘‘gender’’ was introduced
in 1993 at a feminist seminar, and it is termed shehuixingbie or ‘‘social sex.’’
CHRISTIANITY. Feminist critiques of Christianity in general, and
proposals for alternatives to the Christian religion, can be found as
early as the nineteenth century. One strand of feminist thought in this
era was a belief in the existence of a pre-Christian matriarchy, a time
of peaceful cooperation; this often led to a call for the development
of a goddess-centered religion.
In contemporary Western feminist Christian theory, the critique
has become more formalized and can be divided into two main
groups of thought. One approach comes from within the Christian
tradition and focuses on the status of women in the church: for example, the call for the ordination of women. The second approach is
the critique of the tradition itself. One central element of this second
approach is a critique of the Christian view of women, in particular
how the paradigmatic image of Eve was used to justify the subordination of women, because they were seen as the source of sin. Another central element that is closely related to this is the critique of
both the androcentric nature of the image of God as male, and the

46 •

CIXOUS, HÉLÈNE

gendered nature of the language that is used to describe the divine
being.
Of these two approaches, only the latter truly falls into the scope
of Western feminist philosophy of religion. Central to this project is
the reconstruction of the concept of a male God, a concept that has
functioned to reinforce the subordination of women. Feminist philosophical work on Christianity, to date, has been dominated by the
work of Mary Daly; indeed, the framework of the discourse originated with her post-Christian work of the 1970s. For Daly, God is
not identiﬁed with a transcendent male being. Such a God is separate
from nature, and this relation of separation brings with it the relation
of ‘‘power over.’’ This latter relation, according to Daly, provides the
paradigm for, and justiﬁcation of, the power of men over women on
earth. During this early period of her work, Daly argues for the replacement of a patriarchal transcendent God with an immanent God
who is part of the world.
However, not all feminist work in Christian theology is purely critical in this way. For feminist Christians outside the West (Asia, Africa, and Latin America, in particular), the Western emphasis on a
critique of the ‘‘maleness’’ of the tradition is seen as politically misdirected. These non-Western feminists argue, instead, that political
reform and empowerment need to be grounded in a belief in Jesus
as the champion of the poor and oppressed. See also CULTURAL
FEMINISM; ISLAM; JUDAISM.
CIXOUS, HÉLÈNE (1937– ). The work of French feminist theorist
Hélène Cixous has been inﬂuential in recent developments in literary
theory, but it has not been of particular interest for feminist philosophers. She is, however, recognized for her general contribution to the
philosophical approach usually called French feminism; it is this
general approach that has had a signiﬁcant impact on Anglophone
feminist philosophy. Cixous aims to create a feminine form of expression—écriture féminine—that challenges the male symbolic
order of the Western intellectual tradition. In the traditional male
symbolic order, women are constructed in negative terms (e.g., not
active) and thus as inferior to men. Cixous aims to write from a position outside this. She advocates a feminine writing that, through its
ﬂuidity and mutability, challenges the rigidity of the dichotomous

CONSCIOUSNESS RAISING •

47

male language and thought and its exclusion of women. See also IRIGARAY, LUCE; LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF; POSTMODERN
FEMINISM.
COIGNET, CLARISSE (1823–?). French philosopher Clarisse Coignet’s primary philosophical interest was the establishment of an independent morality that was not grounded in science or religion but
was, rather, a morality solely produced by humans. Her central publication in this area was La Morale indépendante dans son principe et
son objet (1869), a work inﬂuenced in part by Immanuel Kant’s
moral philosophy. Coignet was interested in the British women’s suffrage movement of the time, and she claimed that her goal of an independent morality was connected with the political goals of this
movement. Coignet argued that a morality grounded in human freedom and responsibility could serve to liberate women from their subservient status to men, as women would be recognized as individuals
possessing equal dignity and worth. This liberation, however, did not
extend to social and economic freedom for women, as Coignet maintained that the only work natural to women was their biologically
destined role of motherhood.
COLLINS, PATRICIA HILL. See BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY; CARE, ETHICS OF.
COMPULSORY HETEROSEXUALITY. See HETEROSEXISM.
CONSCIOUSNESS RAISING. Consciousness raising was a central
strategy for women’s liberation during the second wave of feminism,
particularly for the more radical movement that grew out of other
protest movements of the 1960s, such as the civil rights movement.
Driven by the insight that ‘‘the personal is political,’’ small groups of
women would meet to share what they had hitherto seen as merely
personal or individual experiences. This sharing would then lead the
group to see common themes in these experiences: that female oppression is structural and institutionalized. The participants would
then work toward strategies for social and political change.
Consciousness raising has played an important role in opening up
the possibilities for a speciﬁcally feminist mode of gaining knowl-

48 •

CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY

edge. It allowed women the possibility of seeing beyond androcentric biases in knowledge. Moreover, it gave women the power to be
the knowers, creators, and subjects of knowledge, which feminist
critics claimed had been previously the privilege of men. This critique of androcentric knowledge, and the possibilities of knowledge
generated by the experiences of women, can be seen as connected to
the development of feminist epistemology in the 1980s.
CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY. The term Continental feminist philosophy is sometimes used as a convenient way to describe any feminist philosophy that is not part of the Anglo-American analytic
tradition. This means that it is used to cover analysis and retrieval of
the Continental tradition itself, as well as recent postmodern philosophy. In the case of feminist philosophical work, it is useful to separate Continental philosophy into these two categories, however loose
they may be, to deﬁne and examine this work. Thus the speciﬁc subject area of feminist work in Continental philosophy is best understood as an examination of this particular tradition—speciﬁcally, the
critique of the central ﬁgures of its historical tradition—and the consideration of ways in which these ﬁgures’ philosophies may be appropriated for feminist purposes.
Although Anglophone feminist philosophers have reread texts by
the central ﬁgures from the Continental tradition, they have usually
examined canonical philosophers as individuals, not as part of a tradition. Moreover, there is usually no general direction of interests or
cohesion among such interpretations. The study of these ﬁgures
within the general context of this tradition is usually only done by
European feminist philosophers.
Feminist interpretive work has been done on some of the central
ﬁgures of the Continental tradition. Given Immanuel Kant’s place
in the canon, much of this work has been done on his philosophy.
However, due to Kant’s place in the evolution of the separation of
the two systems of analytic and Continental philosophy, the interpretations of him have depended on the particular tradition within which
the interpreter is writing. Besides Kant, the philosophies of G. W. F.
Hegel and Friedrich Nietzsche have generated the most work, as
they are viewed as the most fruitful for the feminist enterprise. The
writings of Jean-Paul Sartre are not of particular interest for femi-

CONTRACTARIANISM •

49

nist philosophy; however, he is considered of importance because of
his philosophical connections with Simone de Beauvoir. See also
HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY.
CONTINENTAL RATIONALISM. See AUSTRALIA, FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHY IN; DESCARTES, RENÉ.
CONTRACTARIANISM. Contractarianism is the view that political
relations have their origins in a contract or agreement: a social contract. Following the publication of American philosopher John
Rawls’s 1971 work A Theory of Justice, there was a renewal of philosophical interest in contract theory. For some feminist philosophers,
contractarianism is a promising theory because it is grounded in the
rational consent of free and equal individuals, devoid of the differences produced by their actual (historical, bodily, etc.) circumstances: the same differences that have helped justify the inequality
of women. This notion, however, has also been the target of feminist
criticism because the unsituated, disembodied self is a ‘‘male’’ notion
more reﬂective of male experience, and because women are culturally identiﬁed with their bodies. Indeed, it is precisely because of sex/
bodily difference, and the psychological differences that are supposed to come from this, that the subordination of women has typically been justiﬁed.
The foundational premises of the classical formulations of the social contract have also been criticized by feminist philosophers for
the way that they exclude women. Women have typically been excluded from the classical theories of social contract because of the
way that sex difference is held to produce inferiority in rationality,
while the contract is made between rational individuals. Moreover,
because the social contract applies only to the public sphere, the subordination of women in the private sphere is ignored; indeed, this
omission may even give an implicit sanction to their subordination.
Certainly, the social relations between the sexes often remain unexamined by modern theorists and policy-makers alike in their discussions of civil freedom. See also INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT;
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; PUBLIC/PRIVATE
DISTINCTION; SUBJECTIVITY.

50 •

CONTROLLING IMAGES

CONTROLLING IMAGES. The term controlling image is used to
describe the way that stereotypes have a speciﬁc function: to maintain
domination over subordinate groups. Even if the stereotype of a
group is a ‘‘positive’’ one, it limits or hampers that group or individuals of that group. It dictates what kinds of behaviors are ‘‘normal’’
and penalizes those who step outside of or resist that image. Furthermore, as these images are set by the dominant groups, individuals of
subordinate groups may ﬁnd that they have to work within these images to fulﬁll their own economic and social needs within existing
power structures.
CONWAY, ANNE FINCH (1631–1679). English philosopher Anne
Finch came from a wealthy family and appears to have received a
good home education; she moved in intellectual circles, counting
among her friends members of the Cambridge Platonists. In 1651,
she became Viscountess Conway. Her only published philosophical
work is The Principles of the Most Ancient and Modern Philosophy,
published ﬁrst in 1690 in Latin, and then in English in 1692.
Given that Conway’s philosophical legacy is only this one work,
her philosophy has not been the subject of any particularly detailed
study for its own sake; however, her philosophy has been of general
historical interest because of her connections to the seventeenth-century German philosopher Gottfried Leibniz. Leibniz appears to have
thought well of her work, and it has been suggested that the Leibnizian term ‘‘monad’’ originated with her. Certainly, they share a philosophical vision of an interconnected, vitalist world.
Conway has been of interest to feminist philosophers both because
of the critique that she offered of the major thinkers of her period,
in particular René Descartes and the English philosopher Thomas
Hobbes, and because she has been seen as offering a ‘‘feminine’’
physics. Conway rejects the mechanistic view of nature (such as that
of Descartes and Hobbes), holding instead that the created world is
an organic unity, one that is alive and interconnected through the
Christian framework of the hierarchical chain of being. Part of this
vitalist view of the world is a monistic view of matter and spirit: they
are not ontologically separate. In this way, Conway provides an alternative to the Cartesian dualism of mind and body, a concept that
has been a target of criticism for feminist philosophers.

COOPER, ANNA JULIA •

51

Ultimately, however, Conway’s monism offers not much more
than a reduction of bodies to spirit. This then means that her philosophy can only be silent on the subject of the behaviors, phenomena,
and interactions of bodies; a subject that is of importance for contemporary thinkers. Moreover, Conway maintained the normative distinction between spirit and body held by her contemporaries,
conceiving of spirit as superior to body. Despite these limitations, her
emphasis on connectivity and the ﬂow of life has been seen as an
early example of feminine philosophical and scientiﬁc thinking.
COOPER, ANNA JULIA (1858–1964). The work of the African
American philosopher and teacher Anna Julia Cooper has not typically been an important subject of analysis for either feminist philosophers or historians of black American thought. This is unexpected,
as she was connected to the leading ﬁgures of the black intellectual
movement of her time; her educational philosophy, in particular, has
been seen to align her with the vision of W. E. B. Du Bois. More
recently, however, there has been a development of interest in her
work, and Cooper has been credited with offering the clearest and
best-argued articulation of early black feminist philosophical
thought.
Cooper was born Anna Julia Haywood in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Her mother was a slave, and Cooper assumed that her father was her
mother’s master. After emancipation, Cooper began her education at
an elementary school. She continued her education throughout her
life, earning a B.A. and an M.A. at Oberlin College, and a Ph.D. from
the Sorbonne at age sixty-seven. Cooper married in 1877, but her
husband George Cooper died two years later. As married women at
that time could not teach, this was a signiﬁcant event of Cooper’s
career, as it freed her to be a teacher. Cooper supported herself as a
teacher and a school principal, and during this time she wrote and
spoke publicly on black advancement.
Cooper published her ﬁrst and best-known work, A Voice from the
South by a Black Woman of the South, in 1892. It is a collection of
essays that she wrote between 1886 and 1892 on racial advancement,
racism, sexism, and education. It is because of this work that Cooper
has been described as an early black feminist philosopher, even
though A Voice is her only work on women. The reason for her writ-

52 •

CRITICAL RACE THEORY

ing only work on the subject of women is not clear, but it has been
suggested that, because the black intellectual movement of the time
was male-dominated, there may not have been an intellectual place
for analysis and critique of the status of black women.
In A Voice, Cooper holds that the status of black women, not black
men, is the true measure of black advancement. Indeed, she critiques
black men for championing ministry as a way of educational and social advancement, as this was at the expense of women, who could
not enter the ministry. Simultaneously, she also critiqued the feminist
movement for its deliberate and racist exclusion of women of color.
She held that the true political and ethical strength of the women’s
movement could only come from black women, who were subject to
both racism and sexism. In this way, Cooper’s thought contains the
seeds of current black feminist philosophy.
Yet despite this radical position, Cooper tended to ignore black
women from lower social classes. Even more problematically, she
framed the liberation of black women in terms of the white bourgeois
feminist ideology of ‘‘true womanhood,’’ which was dominant at that
time. Cooper argued that black women should not be actively involved in politics, but rather they should effect change through exerting a moral inﬂuence on men. Cooper’s motivations for arguing for
true womanhood are not clear; she may have thought it would lead
white women feminists to recognize and include black women in the
movement. Whatever her motivations, this aspect of Cooper’s
thought may have contributed to the neglect of her work by feminist
thinkers. See also RACE AND RACISM.
CRITICAL RACE THEORY. See RACE AND RACISM.
CRUZ, SOR JUANA INÉS DE LA (1648–1695). Born in Mexico,
Juana Inés de la Cruz de Asbaje y Ramı́rez entered a convent apparently as a means to her goal of a life of study. Sor Juana, a proliﬁc
writer of poems, plays, and prose, was an important literary ﬁgure of
her time. The central sources we have for her philosophical thought
are the prose works Carta Atenagórica and Respuesta a Sor Filotéa
de la Cruz, as well as some poetry that includes the poem ‘‘Primero
Sueño.’’
Of these works, only the Respuesta has been seen to contain femi-

CULTURAL FEMINISM •

53

nist thought; her reputation as the ﬁrst feminist of the New World
stems from this work. It was written in 1690 or 1691 as a reply to her
bishop, who had criticized her for her focus on non-scriptural studies.
This work is a defense of her life, and her pursuit of knowledge, that
also functions as a more general argument for the education of
women. Sor Juana employed her skill at logical argument to question
the standard arguments against the education of women, but this
questioning is also inherent in the actual form of her argument, in
particular through its use of irony.
One of her central arguments in the Respuesta is that she cannot
write on scriptural subjects. This inability arises, she says, not only
because this was not the province of women, but because such writing could be heretical as a result of her lack of theological knowledge. At the same time she defends her pursuit of worldly subjects,
in particular through a recitation of the biographies of thirty-one wise
women from both biblical and historical sources. She frames her inclination for knowledge as natural: part of her God-given nature.
This claim functions as an early call for equality, in that these inclinations must be satisﬁed through the education reserved for men, an
education that would have included theology. A latent feminism is
also present in Sor Juana’s consideration of the question of who is to
educate women. She recognized that, if men were the teachers, then
the intellectual inequality of women would continue. However she
also recognized that, if women were to teach men, then they would
be persecuted. Thus she offered the progressive possibility of women
teaching women. Her work is far from radical, but it is signiﬁcant
for its upholding of the education of women despite the authoritarian
structure of the church and its demand for obedience to its dictates.
See also CHRISTIANITY.
CULTURAL FEMINISM. The term cultural feminism is used to describe a particular strand of feminist thought that values the differences of, for example, women’s experience, practice, thinking, or
virtue; it uses these differences as a foundation for political and social reform both for women and for society as a whole. This way of
thinking is also called gender feminism.
Cultural feminism was an important strand in nineteenth-century
feminist thought, and its ﬁrst formulation can be found in Margaret

54 •

CULTURAL FEMINISM

Fuller’s Woman in the Nineteenth Century (1845). In this work, Fuller argues that women need freedom so that they can discover, and
develop, their speciﬁcally female faculties. This is not done just on
an individual basis; it also needs the collective support of other
women.
Cultural feminists of the nineteenth century posited the existence
of feminine qualities, such as women’s intuition, emotional sensitivity, and moral superiority, and they argued that these qualities could
produce moral and political reform in society. Freedom was necessary for women to develop these qualities, and in this way women’s
liberation became connected to a larger social reform. Often a matriarchal society was seen as the ideal: one based on paciﬁsm and mutual cooperation. Some cultural feminists of this period also posited
the existence of a pre-Christian matriarchy, a time of non-violence
and cooperation; this view sometimes led to a call for a goddesscentered religion.
Cultural feminism is still an important element for contemporary
feminist theory and feminist philosophy, and contemporary cultural
feminist theorists continue to explore many of the ideas of their nineteenth-century predecessors. Within feminist philosophy, as a speciﬁc subject ﬁeld, the social reformist goal remains in, for example,
the development of ‘‘maternalist’’ political philosophies. Analyses
of the foundations of cultural feminist thought are also a central area
of interest; theorists have questioned, in particular, whether cultural
feminism is founded on the acceptance of a problematic notion of
gender difference as biological: biological determinism.
Cultural feminist thinking has played out in important ways in a
variety of subject ﬁelds in contemporary feminist philosophy. It has
had an important role in feminine ethics, especially in the development of an ethics of care grounded in the speciﬁc moral experience
of women. It is also a part of maternal ethics, which posits the
mothering person-child relationship as the paradigm for ethical relations. For some ecofeminists, women’s nurturing qualities mean they
are more attuned to nature, and thus to a privileged understanding
of the ways to produce an ecologically sustainable society. The notion of a speciﬁcally ‘‘women’s way of thinking’’ has also taken a
more minor role in discussions of epistemology and philosophy of

DALY, MARY •

55

science. See also ESSENTIALISM; FIRST WAVE FEMINISM;
PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION; WAR AND PEACE.

–D–
DALY, MARY (1928– ). Mary Daly, the American philosopher and
theologian, was in the forefront of the development of a feminist theology in the 1970s. She has been a central ﬁgure in radical feminist
philosophizing since the 1970s, and a foundational inﬂuence in the
development of lesbian studies as an academic subject area. Despite
this inﬂuence, the complex and challenging nature of her work has
meant that she has not been acknowledged within mainstream philosophy.
Daly originally studied Catholic theology, but she became frustrated by the fact that, despite a doctorate in theology, there was little
possibility for academic advancement for women in the United States
during the 1950s. Indeed, throughout her academic career, Daly has
faced rejection by the academic community, in particular in her
struggle for tenure at Boston College in the late 1960s. Daly’s 1992
autobiographical work Outercourse: The Be-Dazzling Voyage offers
an account of her academic success in the face of such opposition.
These personal experiences have inﬂuenced both the content and
the style of her work. Autobiographical narrative is a central aspect
of her philosophy, and she has been committed to this approach since
1975. Beginning in the 1970s, Daly began to move away from the
Christian tradition and to position her philosophical work away from
mainstream academia and its institutions.
Daly does not reject the canon altogether; rather, she commits
what she calls ‘‘piracy’’: pulling apart canonical traditions, and using
elements of them to construct an alternative philosophy. The central
theologico-philosophical inﬂuence on Daly’s work is the philosophy
of Thomas Aquinas and the neoscholastics, whose work she studied
at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland from 1959 to 1967. From
these studies, Daly brought to her own work the notion of transcendence or ‘‘Being.’’ She revised Being to ‘‘Be-ing,’’ an evolving—
rather than static—notion of a search to participate in Being.
In her early post-Christian feminist work of the 1970s, God was

56 •

DALY, MARY

identiﬁed as this verb: Be-ing. This new conceptualization of God is
as an immanent God who is part of the world; thus it forms a rejection of the transcendent God of the Islamic, Judaic, and Christian
religions. For Daly the conception of a transcendent God is problematic, because God is then distant and separate from nature and is in
a subject-object relation to nature. The rejection of this ‘‘I-it’’ relation
is within the existentialist tradition and, in particular, reﬂects the inﬂuence of theologians Paul Tillich and Martin Buber. According to
Daly, this relation of separation, and its accompanying relation of
‘‘power over,’’ is then played out in the societal division of humans
into the subject-object categories, with women as the object under the
power of men. Within this oppressive system of patriarchy, positive
feminine traits, such as compassion, become debased and corrupted.
Daly holds, however, that through engaging in the spiritual revolution of the transformative process of Be-ing, women can become liberated.
In her best-known work, Gyn/Ecology: The Metaethics of Radical
Feminism (1978), Daly realizes that the object status of women is not
simply oppressive but destroys them mentally and physically. She
now holds that women must free themselves from femininity, as it
is a patriarchal construct that imprisons women. They must become,
instead, wild, natural women who are engaged in Be-ing. Furthermore, Daly argues, women are oppressed not just by the social constructs of patriarchy but also by the patriarchal structure of reality
itself: its language and values. These wild women must redeﬁne, and
reclaim, patriarchal language about women as a means to female empowerment. In Daly’s terms, women must become ‘‘spinsters’’: they
must spin new meanings. In 1987, Daly produced a dictionary of
these new meanings, Websters’ First New Intergalactic Wickedary
of the English Language, written with Jane Caputi. This revision of
language brings with it a transformation of values. Daly claims, for
example, that women who are ‘‘evil’’ under patriarchy—challenging,
disruptive, powerful women—are in fact ‘‘good’’ women: wild, free
women.
In 1979, Audre Lorde wrote an open letter to Mary Daly in response to Gyn/Ecology. This letter is an early example of the type of
challenge that was raised in the 1980s by women of color to what
they saw as the whiteness of feminist theory, and its neglect of the

DERRIDA, JACQUES •

57

fact that the experience of oppression is not the same for all women.
Daly did not reply to this letter, and in a new introduction to the 1990
edition of Gyn/Ecology, she stated that she had deliberately chosen—
for unspeciﬁed personal reasons—not to respond to it.
Daly’s work continues to evolve. Perhaps the most signiﬁcant
change is found in Outercourse, with her reconception of Be-ing as
not connected to a Christian God. Despite the different shifts in her
views, from her early interest in traditional Catholic theology, to her
most recent work, Daly does not deny the existence of her earlier
thought. She chooses, instead, to see her work as a product of multiple selves who are engaged in a continually evolving search. See also
BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY.
DERRIDA, JACQUES (1930–2004). French philosopher Jacques Derrida was born in Algeria but lived most of his life in Paris, where he
taught philosophy. He is best known for his inﬂuential but controversial critique of the texts of the Western tradition through the use of
deconstruction, a term that resists deﬁnition. In Of Grammatology
(1967) and Writing and Difference (1967), Derrida elaborates the
‘‘performance’’ of deconstruction or the way that deconstruction
‘‘takes place.’’
The relation between the deconstruction of Derrida and feminist
philosophy is contentious. Most feminist philosophers view deconstruction as destructive of, rather than constructive for, the feminist
enterprise. Those feminist philosophers who have explored the possibilities of deconstruction for feminism would argue that this critique
stems from a misunderstanding of what Derrida calls the ‘‘event’’ of
deconstruction, or from an unwillingness to undergo a process of
self-examination and revision.
Those feminist philosophers who do wish to explore the relation
fall into two categories: those who are interested in using deconstruction speciﬁcally as a way of questioning sex difference, and those
who also have the more radical agenda of critiquing feminism itself.
Neither of these approaches need entail that these thinkers claim Derrida’s work is in itself feminist.
The typical interest of the former group is not in all the elements of
Derrida’s philosophy but just in the use of deconstruction to subvert
canonical texts. The Western philosophical tradition, for Derrida, is

58 •

DERRIDA, JACQUES

constructed upon, and through, a series of hierarchical oppositions,
in which the upper or superior concept controls the lower, such as
body and emotion. Derrida holds that this hierarchal system of binary opposition is a patriarchal model of language and labels it
phallogocentric. This system places the male as the standard of normality—thus the masculine is the source of power and meaning—
while its opposite, woman/the feminine, lacks power and is outside
this male discourse.
The meaning of the concepts of the Western philosophical tradition is dependent on the existence of some essence, or object, as a
lower disjunct. This then means that traditional philosophy is constructed on central concepts that do not have an independent signiﬁcance, and thus that the objective, value-neutral, transcendent
language that is required for philosophical discourse is not possible.
Therefore the goal of philosophical understanding is nothing more
than the goal of control—one that requires both a reductionism and
a uniﬁcation of its objects of understanding.
The resistance to this hierarchical dialectical framework occurs
within the text. For Derrida the text has ‘‘blind spots,’’ points where
there is a gap between the intentions of the writer and the words of
the text. It is within such a gap that deconstruction of the text can
occur: the examination of the silences of the text, what it conceals,
and its internal tensions. In this way, the text provides the material
for its own deconstruction.
It is these speciﬁc elements that interest those feminist philosophers who wish to explore the possible uses of deconstruction for
feminist philosophy. They are interested, among other things, in a
deconstruction of what texts do not say about women, and in resisting
the hierarchical concepts which control women and the feminine.
They aim to expose the blind spots in Western tradition in order to
subvert male-female hierarchy. Thus deconstruction is pressed into
political use.
What is problematic, however, for most feminist philosophers is
that deconstruction must also occur within the feminist enterprise itself. Derrida’s deconstruction is not simply negative or destructive,
so it does not threaten the enterprise in this way. Its threat comes,
instead, from the way that it rejects an analysis which requires entities to uncover and categorize. This type of analysis, however, is a

DESCARTES, RENÉ •

59

fundamental requirement of the feminist enterprise in that it needs to
produce, for example, gender-neutral reality, or knowledge. Yet, for
Derrida, the patriarchal structuring of difference (through hierarchical opposition) is the foundation of this type of claim about truth, or
essence. Moreover, this also means there is no way to conceptualize
an entity, or category, of women outside of this mode of discourse
from which to critique it, as this would assign them an essence. On
the other hand, there is no place within the discourse for critique, as
women are only ‘‘present’’ in the sense that they are marked by their
absence, or subordination.
This then has the problematic result that there is no space in which
to talk about real people: those who actually correspond to this category of women. This is not just a conceptual problem for feminism;
it is a central political problem. In order to liberate themselves,
women must have an understanding of some kind of self or subject
to liberate, to protect, and for which to assert justice, but the erasure
of this concept is a necessary part of the deconstruction of Western
intellectual thought.
This is, therefore, the central question for feminist philosophers
who want to see Derrida’s work as connected to, or as part of, the
feminist enterprise. Those who propose this relationship claim that
feminism can be strengthened by a process of its own self-deconstruction, as this process can expose the problems of the construction
of feminist theory. They argue that, like the Western philosophical
tradition, feminist theory provides the material for its own deconstruction. Feminist philosophers who wish to deconstruct feminism
point to, among other things, the way that the ﬁxed boundaries and
certainties of feminist politics, and the reductionist identiﬁcation of
the causes of women’s subordination, lead to an erasure of difference
among women within this project, as well as to a refusal to recognize
the possibility of a plurality of feminist strategies to remove this subordination.
DESCARTES, RENÉ (1596–1650). French philosopher René Descartes was born in La Haye, France, on March 31, 1596, and studied
at the University of Poitiers. In 1649 Descartes went to Sweden to
join the court of Queen Christina, but he died shortly thereafter. Descartes is seen as the ﬁrst philosopher of the modern period and is thus

60 •

DESCARTES, RENÉ

a pivotal ﬁgure in the history of philosophy. His ﬁrst published work
was his Discourse on the Method (1637). In the Discourse he introduced his approach to philosophy and his philosophical system. This
was elaborated in his later works: in particular, metaphysics in his
best known work Meditations on First Philosophy (1641), physics in
Principles of Philosophy (1644), and psychology and moral philosophy in Passions of the Soul (1649). The thought in this last work was
developed in part as a result of the philosophical discussions he had
in correspondence with Elisabeth of Bohemia.
Of the three ﬁgures of modern (or Continental) rationalism, the
other two being Benedict de Spinoza and Gottfried Leibniz, René
Descartes has provoked the most criticism from feminist philosophers. Given the fact that modern philosophy is grounded in, and
framed within, Descartes’s epistemology, feminist philosophers
need to offer a detailed and thorough analysis of Descartes’s thought.
If its roots are antithetical to feminist philosophy, then the modern
philosophical project as a whole must be carefully scrutinized.
Within Anglo-American analytic feminist philosophy, the focus
has been on Descartes’s notion of reason, and the dualist thinking
that underpins this notion. An equally important strand of thought
can be found in some French feminist work that examines Descartes’s philosophy in terms of its ethics and its account of the passions.
Among Anglo-American feminist philosophers, few interpreters
have argued for ways that Descartes’s thought can be of use for feminist philosophy. The majority of work has focused, instead, on analyzing Descartes’s legacy of the masculinization of reason. One
problem with such an analysis is how Descartes’s conceptualization
of reason is to be initially interpreted. Descartes’s contemporaries
were typically more interested in his metaphysics than his epistemology. It is only since the eighteenth century that Descartes’s contributions to epistemology, speciﬁcally his introduction of the
individual knowing subject, have been considered of central importance. Thus a central question for present-day feminist philosophers
is whether they are criticizing Descartes’s philosophy itself or cultural readings and appropriations of his thought: what could be called
‘‘Cartesianism.’’
Descartes’s philosophical legacy is a rich and complex one; cen-

DESCARTES, RENÉ •

61

tral to this legacy is Descartes’s method of attaining certain knowledge. In order to attain this, we must analyze our beliefs and
experiences of reality through our reason, so that we can ﬁnd what
we can know clearly and distinctly: what is self-evident. In the Meditations, Descartes subjects everything to radical doubt only to ﬁnd
there is one thing that cannot be in doubt: his existence as a thinking
thing (the ‘‘cogito argument’’). From this certain foundation, Descartes rebuilds our knowledge of the world, a rebuilding that can only
be done through the use of deductive reason. For Descartes, the information we receive through our senses is both unreliable and subjective.
While Descartes maintained philosophical tradition in holding the
mind, or soul, to be superior to the body, the new element that Descartes introduces is that the body is not simply inferior but actually
prevents us from obtaining knowledge. Indeed, he holds that knowledge can be obtained only through transcending the body. Descartes
no longer maintains a traditional picture of the soul as containing
both reason and emotion, with reason as the superior element and
emotion as the inferior. The Cartesian mind, or soul, is instead simply a thinking thing. It is thus, as he states explicitly, sexless. Emotion is no longer a part of the soul but comes from the body. It is in
this way that rationality becomes identiﬁed purely with reason; moreover, the attainment of knowledge is the province of the individual
knowing ‘‘I’’: a solitary self.
In this initial account at least, Descartes’s philosophy may not appear necessarily in conﬂict with feminist goals. It has been held that
these new elements served to produce a very real effect on the intellectual liberation of women of Descartes’s time (or at least certain
classes of women). Descartes’s method does not require the kind of
formal philosophical education that was considered unsuitable for
his female contemporaries. The Cartesian mind as a sexless thinking
thing also means that philosophical thought and discourse need not
exclude women. Finally, the separation of mind and body at work in
Descartes’s philosophy carried with it an implicit rejection of claims
that women’s biology somehow restricted their abilities to think and
reason.
This potential of Descartes’s works for feminist philosophical
thinking of this era can be seen in the fact that many writers and

62 •

DESCARTES, RENÉ

salonistes were inﬂuenced by Descartes; for example, François
Poullain de la Barre employed the Cartesian method to demonstrate
that the inferiority of women had no foundation in human nature.
The effect of Descartes’s inﬂuence can be seen, in particular, in the
work of two early modern female philosophers: Mary Astell and
Damaris Masham. Indeed, in the case of Astell, her feminist philosophy is founded on Cartesian rationalism.
Both Astell and Masham read Descartes’s conceptualization of
reason differently from current feminist philosophers; both held that
the capacity for reason is a human capacity, and thus is possessed by
both men and women. They did not see reason as a capacity that is
restricted to a search for knowledge, but rather as a capacity that
allows us to direct our lives, in particular our moral lives. Thus they
did not construe, as modern feminist philosophers tend to do, Cartesian reason as a separate or specialized function. Both Astell and
Masham used this understanding of Descartes’s view of reason to
argue for changes in the lives of the women of that period. Astell
focused her attention on women’s education, arguing that it was necessary in order for women to develop their capacity for reason. Masham connected women’s traditional roles with the need for women’s
development of reason, arguing that this was necessary for them to
be able to rear children properly.
However, even though Descartes’s philosophy had this inﬂuence
on the real lives of women of the intelligentsia, it can be argued that
the Cartesian conception of reason ultimately serves not only to exclude women and the feminine from philosophy, but to gender the
philosophical project and its ideals of rationality and objectivity.
Descartes’s conception of rationality requires a division between
mind and body that entails the normative dualisms of mind/body and
reason/emotion. Given that women and the feminine have been culturally associated with the inferior, or problematic, disjuncts (body
and emotion) of these dualisms, this division has the potential both
to reinforce these traditional stereotypes and to ensure the separation
of women from the philosophical enterprise.
Modern feminist critics differ as to how these potential difﬁculties
are to be analyzed and understood. Thus far, there have been three
different types of analysis of the masculine nature of Descartes’s
conception of reason.

DESCARTES, RENÉ •

63

One type of analysis—which comes from the work of Genevieve
Lloyd—is primarily grounded in a critical assessment of Descartes’s
philosophical method. This type of analysis places Descartes’s contribution to philosophy within a broader ranging discussion of the
symbolic maleness of reason within the history of philosophy. In
this account, Cartesian rationality becomes a metaphorical overcoming of a feminized corporeality. Women are then left, by default, with
the responsibility for knowledge of the world of the senses. Even
though the ‘‘man of reason’’ must rise intellectually above this world
to attain true knowledge, he will still need its practical beneﬁts. In
this way, women are not just excluded from attaining reason, but philosophy as a whole is left with a Cartesian legacy that supports a
sexual division of mental labor; one in which women have a different, complementary role to play to ‘‘male’’ reason.
Another approach—which comes from the work of Susan
Bordo—is to explore Descartes’s philosophy as a source of the masculinization of thought in modern philosophy by using a theory of
psychological development: object relations theory. Cartesian rationalism is depicted as a ‘‘ﬂight from the feminine’’—the organic
female universe or nature as ‘‘mother’’—to the security of the modern scientiﬁc universe. This ﬂight is matched with an epistemological
ﬂight from ‘‘feminine’’ ways of knowledge: knowledge that is nonhierarchical, connected to the body, and fails to attain the ‘‘masculine’’ ideals of objectivity and detachment. This separate, knowing
‘‘I’’ of philosophical and scientiﬁc reasoning can be explained in
terms of the psychological separation of a male child from his
mother, a separation that is part of object relations theory. In order
to attain a ‘‘masculine’’ cultural identity, the male child must learn to
separate himself from his mother and see himself as a detached and
autonomous entity.
The third interpretation—which comes from the work of Nancy
Tuana—grounds an analysis of the Cartesian masculinization of rationality on the concepts and roles traditionally associated with
women. The Cartesian conception of reality, with its transcendence
of the body and emotion, does not mesh well with traditional conceptions of ‘‘woman’’: a being dominated by emotions and the needs of
the body. This tension is not simply on a conceptual plane. The traditionally accepted social roles of women as household manager and

64 •

DIOTIMA OF MANTINEA

mother would have meant that, except in very rare cases, they would
have been unable in real terms to ﬁnd the time necessary to train for,
and practice, Descartes’s method. Thus, even though Descartes has
not explicitly excluded women from the realm and practice of reason,
it is only available to women who can, in some way, shed everything
that is culturally identiﬁed as female.
In contrast to these readings of Descartes, explicitly deconstructionist readings of Descartes have not focused on an analysis of the
maleness or masculinity of reason. Luce Irigaray, for example,
writes on the passion of wonder, and uses Descartes’s own words to
show how this passion straddles the ofﬁcial Cartesian divide between
the physical and the spiritual, and the material and the metaphysical.
See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF; SUBJECTIVITY.
DIOTIMA OF MANTINEA (n.d.). In Plato’s Symposium, Socrates,
who is the main protagonist, speaks of the importance of love. In
essence, Socrates claims that we love beauty in other people and,
from that physical love, we ultimately progress to knowing beauty
itself. What has been of interest to feminist philosophers of history
is Socrates’s claim that his philosophy of love is based on an earlier
conversation with Diotima, a Mantinean priestess, who is one of only
two women philosophers mentioned in Plato’s dialogues (the other
being Aspasia in the Menexenus). Traditionally, Diotima has been
considered simply a literary device employed either by Plato or the
historical Socrates. However, while the evidence for assuming that
Diotima is a literary device is strong, it is not conclusive. Thus some
philosophers, feminist and non-feminist alike, have considered the
possibility that she was a historical ﬁgure. One central consideration
for assessing this possibility is the fact that Diotima’s notion of
beauty is not identical with the Platonic notion of the ‘‘Form’’ of
beauty; this suggests that her views are those of a real person. A further consideration is whether the literary device of a female, and thus
inferior, philosopher would have worked to enhance Socrates’s discussion. The fact that this is unlikely indicates that she actually existed. Certainly, if Diotima was indeed an historical ﬁgure, her
inclusion in Plato’s dialogues would make her a signiﬁcant ﬁgure in
the history of women philosophers.

DISABILITY •

65

DISABILITY. According to the United Nations deﬁnition, disability,
with respect to an individual, is ‘‘any restriction or lack (resulting
from an impairment) of ability to perform an activity in the manner
or within the range considered normal for a human being.’’ Feminist
philosophical interest in disability came to the fore in the 1990s.
Feminist theorists have pointed out that, while there is a biological or
psychological reality to disability, it is the social construction put on
this foundation that produces disability itself.
Feminist philosophers have claimed that both the feminist movement and feminist philosophy can serve to marginalize women with
disabilities. Within the feminist movement, for example, one argument often used to support a woman’s right to abortion is the need
for the freedom to abort a disabled fetus. In this way, however, the
desires and the rights of ‘‘normal’’ women, and the subsequent alienation and devaluing of disabled women, become problematically
identiﬁed with feminism itself. Within philosophy, more speciﬁcally,
some feminist philosophers are engaged in the project of revaluing
the traditional social roles of women, yet their model for these roles
is the ‘‘normal’’ woman. A central example of this is the way that the
theory of the ethics of care is grounded in the actual moral experience of women, in particular their experiences as caregivers and
mothers. This neglects the possibility that some women with disabilities may have a limited range of such experiences and functions.
Despite these difﬁculties, it is recognized that there is a need for a
feminist theory of disability, especially in light of the number of
women who are disabled. Feminist theorizing offers, among other
things, an analysis of, and response to, the ways that cultural ideals
of the body have served to oppress women. This analysis, in turn,
can illuminate the ways that these ideals serve to marginalize the disabled. Failure to achieve these (impossible) cultural ideals in ‘‘normal’’ women leads to a feeling of alienation from one’s own body
and a devaluing of those who are less than perfect. For physically
disabled women, this failure is so magniﬁed that they are not always
perceived as ‘‘real’’ women: women who can have sexual relationships, children, and so on. Moreover, an inability to achieve such cultural ideals of the body for ‘‘normal’’ women is tied to assumptions
about a lack of self-control and of personal responsibility. The disabled represent the existence of the opposite of ‘‘normal,’’ as they are

66 •

DIVISION OF LABOR, SEXUAL

culturally understood to lack independence and to have a body they
cannot control. See also POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
DIVISION OF LABOR, SEXUAL. While some theorists speak of a
‘‘gender division of labor,’’ others prefer the term ‘‘sexual’’ over
‘‘gender’’ because it makes clear that the division is grounded in
bodily differences. Essentially, the division of labor by sex is seen to
be grounded in the reality of women’s capacity to bear children. This
sexual difference leads to a division of labor: women remain in the
home and raise children, while men work outside the home to provide for the material needs of the family. The division is normative,
with the women having the lower status or inferior role. Feminist
theorists recognize, however, that it is difﬁcult to develop a single
account of the division that crosses cultures.
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels offered the earliest identiﬁcation
and analysis of the division. In a standard interpretation of their
thought, the division is viewed as a ‘‘natural’’ one that originated in
primitive society and stemmed from the basic division of labor for
producing children. However, Engels did not see the work of women
as inferior in some way, as he considered the work of both sexes to
be of the same importance. According to Engels, it was the advent of
the development of agriculture, and thus the development of the male
sphere of production, that led to a change in the value placed on
women’s traditional labor. Women became subordinate, as men now
had social and economic power over women. This change in the situation of women coincided with the origins of class society, as this
expansion in production brought about the economic beneﬁts of the
use of slaves.
There is no one feminist account of the problem with the sexual
division of labor. Marxist feminists tend to hold that the sexual division of labor serves capital, for example, through the way that women
maintain the workers by providing important services, such as caring
for the sick. Thus Marxist feminists tend to focus on eradicating gender divisions within the marketplace, as they frame the division of
labor as a class issue. Socialist feminists offer a more complex account that also analyzes how the beneﬁts that the division gives to
men can play a part in the oppression of women as a group. A central
example of this is the way that ‘‘women’s work’’ leads to lower pay

DUALISM •

67

for women, due to the fact that they spend time taking care of male
workers. The latter then have more working hours, as well as time to
learn the relevant skills, so that they can rise up the corporate ladder,
and thus have the better paying jobs. Although radical feminists
agree that biology alone is the problem, they do not have a cohesive
account of the division. For some, the development of reproductive
technologies will provide a solution, while others ask whether the
division could lead to the development of a speciﬁcally female, and
thus political, identity. Liberal feminists critique the division, in
particular, for the way it provides a barrier to equal opportunities for
women in the public sphere, especially in the workplace. See also
PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
DUALISM. The term dualism is typically used by feminist philosophers for the binary oppositional thinking present throughout the
Western philosophical tradition. Some of the standard dualisms that
have been used to categorize, and thus understand, reality are abstract/concrete, reason/emotion, universal/particular, subjective/objective, knowledge/experience, mind/body, white/black, and man/
woman. What characterizes dualist thinking is not that the disjuncts
of each pair are merely different, but that they are mutually exclusive
in that one disjunct is deﬁned against the other. Moreover, there is no
middle ground: everything falls into one category or the other.
Some feminist philosophers, most notably Simone de Beauvoir in
The Second Sex, have claimed that dualist thinking is a fundamental
category of human thought. Certainly there are indications of a version of dualist thinking even in the earliest works of philosophy,
those of ancient Greek philosophy. Dualist thinking was formalized
by Plato in the sense that the mind/body distinction was an actual
part of his philosophical framework: in order to gain true knowledge,
the mind must transcend the body. For Plato, not only is the body a
different kind of object from the mind, but it can be a hindrance to
knowledge.
A variety of sophisticated approaches are used to analyze and explain the way dualist thinking is structured and how it serves to justify the oppression of women. In essence, dualist thinking is
considered problematic for feminist philosophy both for its structure
and for its connection to power relations. For the discipline of philos-

68 •

DUALISM

ophy itself, its very deﬁnition relies on its being framed in opposition
to the material and the practical, elements that are important components to the deﬁnition of feminist philosophy. Moreover, the construction of reality through separation and exclusion is a problematic
way of thinking for feminist philosophy, as feminist philosophy aims
not only for the inclusion of historically marginalized groups, but for
the dismantling of the oppressive thinking that constructs these
groups.
Dualist thinking, furthermore, is typically not value neutral but
normative. In deﬁning one disjunct against the other, the deﬁned
comes to be seen as having a positive or superior value, while the
deﬁned-against comes to be seen as having a negative or inferior
value, precisely because it lacks the qualities of the ﬁrst disjunct. The
value placed on one disjunct over the other is not the result of what
the disjunct actually is; instead, the value is grounded in convention
or historical association. Furthermore, some feminist philosophers
maintain that the construction and afﬁrmation of the identity and
value of the ‘‘superior’’ disjunct requires this negative value of its
matching opposite. Placed within a system of power relations, such
as those of gender or race, normative dualist thinking then provides
a useful justiﬁcation for the oppression of women or people of color.
Some feminist philosophers have also been interested in the ways in
which the set of inferior disjuncts and/or the set of superior disjuncts
reinforce the others that share the same value. Thus, for example, the
desire to control a potentially unruly nature is reinforced by fears of
the capriciousness of women, which in its turn comes from their lack
of rationality. This phenomenon is not necessarily a target of criticism; some thinkers have aimed to show, for example, that the association of women with emotion, or with nature, can be a source of
political strength.
The ﬁnal major element of dualist thinking that has been the subject of feminist criticism is interconnected to the gendering of the
disjunctive pairs. Although the initial formulation by Plato of the
mind-body relation had a stronger cultural association with the master-slave relation, this relation became over time replaced by a malefemale association. This gender association, and the values placed on
the disjuncts of male and female, further afﬁrmed the value placed
on the other binary oppositions—such as reason and body—which

DUAL SYSTEMS THEORY •

69

were used to order and understand the world. It is hard to locate a
precise moment in the history of philosophy in which dualist categories became associated with gender; however, some feminist philosophers point to the radical dualist thinking of René Descartes as
a deﬁning moment in the masculinization of knowledge and truth.
Analytic Anglo-American as well as French feminist philosophers have engaged in a variety of strategies to deal with the problems of dualist thinking. Some aim simply to revalue the inferior
disjunct, while others aim to erase or disrupt dualist thinking. One
example of the latter approach—which comes from French feminist
thought—is to take up a position outside the framework of philosophical thought, and then, from this location, to critique cultural
representations of female as the negative in philosophical texts. This
position then represents a way of thinking and writing outside of dualist constructions. See also VALUE HIERARCHICAL THINKING.
DUAL SYSTEMS THEORY. Radical feminists claim that a single
system—patriarchy—is the root cause of the oppression of women.
Marxist feminists, on the other hand, claim that the root cause of
women’s oppression is the system of capitalism. Given that socialist
feminism developed out of both versions of feminism, its proponents
recognize the existence of both systems of oppression. However,
there are differences in the analyses they offer of the relationship between the two systems: dual systems theory or single system theory.
Dual systems theorists typically argue that patriarchy and capitalism are two separate systems of oppression; thus, before there can be
an analysis of the ways in which the two interlock, each must be analyzed in isolation from the other. Critics of the dual systems theory
claim, for example, that a separate examination of gender oppression
serves to restrict this oppression to the domestic sphere, thus obscuring the ways in which women face oppression as women within the
workforce. The competing view, a ‘‘uniﬁed systems’’ or ‘‘single system’’ theory, aims to analyze capitalism and patriarchy in conjunction with each other, holding that, despite their historically different
forms, gender relations have never been separate from class relations.
Some feminist theorists have replaced both dual systems and uniﬁed
systems by theorizing with a multi-systems approach that can include

70 •

EASTERN EUROPE, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN

an analysis of other systems of dominance, such as racism. See also
DIVISION OF LABOR, SEXUAL.

–E–
EASTERN EUROPE, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. The philosophical tradition in Eastern Europe reﬂects the diversity of the nations that constitute it; however, the philosophy of Marxism forms a
common theme within the philosophy of Eastern Europe. Given their
different intellectual, political, and social histories, feminist thinkers
of Eastern Europe do not always share the same concerns as their
counterparts in Western Europe. Often the work of East European
feminist philosophers focuses on the limits of the Marxist analysis of
the oppression of women, and the ways socialism failed to liberate
women. In addition, the presence of war in some parts of Eastern
Europe has led to work on war, nationalism, and violence against
women. Some of the most recent feminist philosophy shows the inﬂuences of contemporary French feminist philosophers, such as
Luce Irigaray.
ECOFEMINISM. The term ecofeminism was ﬁrst used by Françoise
d’Eaubonne in her 1974 work Le Féminisme ou la Mort. Ecofeminism can be characterized as a feminist ecology and an ecological
feminism: solutions to environmental problems require a feminist
perspective, and feminist theory and practice require an environmental perspective. Ecofeminism differs from environmentalism in
that it identiﬁes androcentrism—as well as anthropomorphism—as
the root of both the domination of humans and the domination of
nature. The ideals and values of maleness—for example, power,
reason, and civilization—are the hallmark of both these forms of
domination. The interconnected dominations of women and nature
are justiﬁed within the traditional Western framework of dualist
thinking: civilization/nature, reason/body, active/passive, and so on.
This way of thinking is value hierarchical: one disjunct is superior
to the other. In this framework, women and nature are associated with
the inferior disjuncts—passivity, non-rationality, etc.—and are thus
the subjects of a justiﬁed domination. These connections have played

EDUCATION •

71

out in traditional Western philosophy in a variety of ways; for example, nature and women have been seen as capricious and unruly, and
thus needing to be tamed through force: technology in the case of
nature, or physical violence in the case of women.
The starting point, therefore, of all versions of ecofeminist theory
and practice is the understanding that the liberation of nature requires
the liberation of women, and vice versa. However, as with all feminist theories, the deﬁnition and boundaries of ecofeminism are contested. Where the disagreement starts is how the connection between
women and nature should be understood: as a potential source of
power or as the cause of oppression. Thus ecofeminists disagree
over whether the woman/nature connection should be severed, valued, or reconceived. See also ANIMAL ETHICS; BACON, FRANCIS; DUALISM; INDIA, PHILOSOPHY IN; VEGETARIANISM.
ÉCRITURE FÉMININE (FEMININE WRITING). See BODY;
FRENCH FEMINISM; SEXUALITY.
EDUCATION. Despite the role of education as a central component of
the good society, contemporary philosophers of education tend not
to pay much attention to issues of women or gender. Historically
speaking, however, the philosophy of education has been central to
discussions of female equality within feminist philosophy. As early
as the seventeenth century, feminist (or proto-feminist) philosophers
began to produce arguments for the education of women. The central
ﬁgures were Mary Astell, Bathsua Pell Makin, Anna Maria van
Schurman, Sophia, Catharine Macaulay, and Mary Wollstonecraft in Europe; and Catharine Beecher and Judith Sargent Murray
in the United States. In retrospect, it is clear that progress in the education and intellectual development of women was a necessary ﬁrst
step to be taken prior to more broad-ranging arguments for their civil
and political equality, although early proponents of female education
did not typically conceive of it in this way.
Early proponents of female education offered three main types of
argument. Some challenged claims about women’s intellectual and
moral inferiority through an analysis of the damaging effects of the
education, or lack thereof, on the intellect and character of their contemporaries. Others argued that education would enable women to

72 •

EDUCATION

fulﬁll properly their roles as mother and housekeeper. A third group
saw education as leading to a kind of empowerment for women. They
claimed that a trained mind could help women understand, and thus
deal with, their subordinate social roles and status, or it could help to
prevent young women from making the wrong choices in marriage.
Within these general arguments for female education, two early feminist philosophers can be identiﬁed as producing a systematic or fully
worked out philosophy of women’s education: Catharine Beecher
and Mary Wollstonecraft (in A Vindication of the Rights of
Woman).
Despite this historical importance, philosophy of education is a
minor ﬁeld in current feminist philosophy. Within this general ﬁeld,
some main subﬁelds can be identiﬁed. One is the analysis of a hidden
gender ‘‘curriculum,’’ broadly speaking an analysis of the interconnections between the theory and practice of education and the maintenance and construction of gender. One obvious example of this is
the way that the traditional framing of education as part of the public
sphere, which is culturally associated as male, plays out in the way
that the profession of teaching is gendered. Female teachers predominate in schools for younger children, while males predominate in institutions of higher education.
Another subﬁeld is also part of the more general ﬁeld of feminist
history of philosophy. Central components of this subﬁeld include
the reinterpretation of canonical works on the philosophy of education, such as those of Plato and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, as well as
the rediscovery of neglected feminist philosophers who developed a
philosophy of education.
A third subﬁeld is the development of philosophies of education
that are based on an ethics of care. Nel Noddings offers an educational theory that is a feminine ethics grounded in the ideal of our
moral relation with each other: a practical ethic of ‘‘caring.’’ In order
both to develop and protect this ideal, Noddings argues that we need
a proper moral education (broadly conceived). While Noddings does
not offer a fully developed philosophy of education, she does recommend ways that schools can be organized; the primary goal of the
teacher is to create a speciﬁc relation of caring to the student that will
produce the ethical development of the latter. This relation is one of
involvement with the student, which is aimed at producing intellec-

EMOTION •

73

tual involvement, rather than rote learning or eliciting the correct answer. In practice, schools would then need to be organized to offer
such things as more student-teacher contact time (e.g., through having teachers teach more than one subject), open discussions of values
and beliefs, and the use of care-oriented service learning.
ELISABETH OF BOHEMIA, PRINCESS PALATINE (1618–
1680). Elisabeth of Bohemia, Princess Palatine, was the daughter of
Frederick, the Elector Palatine, and Elizabeth Stuart, the daughter of
James I of England. After her father lost the throne of Bohemia, Elisabeth ﬁrst went to the court in the Hague and then to a convent. She
appears to have had a strong background in philosophy, and evidence
of this shows in her correspondence with French philosopher René
Descartes, for which she is best known. While some of these letters
are simply of a social nature, Elisabeth frequently questions and critiques Descartes on particular points of his philosophical system. Indeed, Descartes’s Passions of the Soul (1649), was developed in part
as a result of her encouragement.
EMOTION. Given the rationalist bias in much of Western philosophy,
reason has usually been identiﬁed as the faculty through which
knowledge is acquired and moral judgments are made. Emotion has
typically been cast as inferior, or even as a potential hindrance to this
faculty. Prior to the thought of René Descartes, the emotions and
reason were usually conceived as related in some way, or as part of
the same entity: the mind or soul. Within Descartes’s radical dualist
framework, however, the mind or soul is a purely thinking thing in
opposition to the body, which he saw as the seat of the emotions. In
this way, it is not just that reason is the capacity for knowledge, but
rather reason needs to transcend the body in order to obtain knowledge. This conception of knowledge and its ideals underpins much
of the modern Western philosophical enterprise, for example, in the
ideal of the detached objective observer of scientiﬁc inquiry.
The reactions of feminist philosophers to this dismissal of emotion
within the Western tradition have been varied. For early feminist philosophers, such as Mary Astell, the connection of the emotions with
the body—and the subsequent separation of the mind as a sexless
thinking thing—were seen as potentially liberating for women, as

74 •

ENGELS, FRIEDRICH

this meant that female biology need no longer be seen as a hindrance
to their rationality.
In contrast, those current philosophers who engaged in critiquing
and rereading the canon often point to the way that the cultural association of women with emotions and the body has resulted in the exclusion of women and the things associated with women (such as
child care) from the traditional philosophical enterprise. Other feminist philosophers have begun exploring the emotions themselves,
through looking at the way emotions are socially constructed,
through bringing out their cognitive elements, or through providing
a ﬁne-grained analysis of a speciﬁc emotion.
An examination of the epistemic value of emotion is often a component of many of the subﬁelds in feminist philosophy. Within feminist ethics, for example, a dominant theme has been the reevaluation
of the role of emotion for moral decision-making and moral knowledge. The ethics of care and maternal ethics, in particular, have
come to be associated with this reevaluation, because of their developments of ethical alternatives that are grounded in women’s experience of caring for others. Given the centrality of the situated knower
for feminist epistemology—and thus the situated emotional responses of the knower—some philosophers are also engaged in exploring the variety of ways in which the role of emotion informs the
conception, acquisition, and attribution of knowledge. It has been
asked, for example, whether women’s emotional responses to their
oppression, combined with political reﬂection, can place them in a
position of epistemic privilege.
ENGELS, FRIEDRICH. See MARXIST FEMINISM.
ENVIRONMENT. See ECOFEMINISM.
EPISTEMOLOGY. Epistemology, or the theory of knowledge, has
traditionally been concerned with the justiﬁcation of knowledge
claims in general, including the question of skepticism: whether
knowledge is possible at all. An examination of the canon shows
that epistemological issues and concerns are central to the Western
philosophical enterprise, or at least at the heart of current interest in
the canon.

EPISTEMOLOGY •

75

Within the canon, men have been framed as ‘‘knowers.’’ Women
have been explicitly or implicitly excluded from access to knowledge, or they have been labeled as incapable or not fully capable of
knowledge. This exclusion occurred in a myriad of different ways.
On the most basic level, this exclusion was the result of women’s
lack of educational and economic resources, as well as the maleonly orientation of academic disciplines. More subtly, the symbolic
and cultural association of ‘‘maleness’’ with reason, traditionally the
source of knowledge, served to undermine women’s epistemic authority. Moreover, the epistemological project itself contained, and
was grounded in, male bias. Knowledge claims were presumed to be
value neutral, yet they were grounded in the experience of middleand upper-class Western men, and ignored any differences in the experience of women. Indeed, feminist epistemologists claim that even
the ideals of the epistemological project are biased, in that they are
grounded in male experience and privilege.
Early feminist philosophers were well aware of the oppression
that was the corollary of this exclusion. Mary Wollstonecraft,
among others, criticized the debilitating effects of the combination
of a lack of educational resources and the socialization of women
that produced women’s development of sensibility over rationality.
Both Wollstonecraft and Sophia criticized so-called knowledge
about women—knowledge that kept women in subordinate roles—
claiming that it was, in fact, the product of male prejudice and selfinterest.
The focus of these early feminist philosophers was ultimately on
demanding women’s inclusion in the epistemological project. Assertions of women’s capacity for reason were typically tied up with
claims for the equality of women. It was not until the 1970s that
feminist philosophers started to question the traditional epistemological project itself, and in the 1980s the subject area of feminist epistemology took shape. At this point feminist philosophers began to
question, in a variety of different ways, whether it was enough to include women in the epistemological project or whether the project
could allow for the inclusion of women at all.
Some feminist philosophers point to the way that the mainstream
epistemological project excludes the possibilities of ‘‘women’s ways
of knowing,’’ which are rooted in women’s different experiences of

76 •

EPISTEMOLOGY

‘‘reality.’’ This notion of women’s knowledge, or ways of knowing,
is often associated with radical feminist thinking; for some radical
feminists, women have an intuitive faculty that can be a source of
knowledge. This notion, however, is not particular to radical feminism. For some ecofeminists, women’s connection to nature means
that they have a knowledge of the way the world is interconnected, a
knowledge that is not available to men. Because of the underlying
assumption of this type of thinking—that there is a unitary set of
‘‘women’s’’ experiences—it has been criticized as problematically
essentialist.
The predominant way of critiquing the epistemological project,
however, is to question the concepts of knowledge and reality that
are currently prominent in mainstream epistemology. While these
concepts have a long history, their explicit formulation can be traced
back to René Descartes. The Cartesian knower is a solitary individual whose task is to gain understanding or knowledge of a reality that
is independent of human knowers. This knowledge or understanding
is gained through reason, which, for Descartes, functions alone. The
emotions, the body, or any other of the historical particulars of an
individual are seen as hindrances to the successful acquisition of an
objective knowledge of reality. Moreover, once free of these
hindrances, this individual can generate a universal account of
knowledge. The notion of a solitary knower is not exclusive to the
rationalist tradition: even though the knower of the empiricist tradition gains knowledge through reason in conjunction with the senses,
this knower is often conceived of as independently attaining knowledge.
This conception of reality with its radical mind/body dualism is
not, as it was originally intended, gender neutral. Essentially, the
cultural associations of women with the body and the emotions
means that ‘‘femaleness’’ is framed in opposition to reason. Moreover, the ideals of the Cartesian project are only apparently gender
neutral. Feminist philosophers have argued instead, in a variety of
different ways, that the ideals of objectivity, the objective knower,
and the universality of knowledge do not reﬂect general human ideals
and experiences, but rather those of middle-class Western males.
Much of the impetus for feminist epistemology as a subject ﬁeld
originally came from this questioning of the masculinist nature of

EPISTEMOLOGY •

77

the ideals of reason, objectivity, and knowledge of the traditional
epistemological project. However, feminist epistemology is not simply a critique; it is also a reconstructive project. There is no such
thing as a feminist epistemology, but rather different epistemologies.
There is no tendency, moreover, to demarcate epistemology from
other subject ﬁelds in philosophy; in particular, it is closely connected to feminist philosophy of science. However, an overall sense
of the project can be encapsulated with Lorraine Code’s germinal
question: ‘‘Is the sex of the knower epistemologically signiﬁcant?’’
Central to the feminist reconstructive epistemological project, and
in contrast to the dominant tradition, is the concept of the situated
knower. This concept means that the historical particulars of knowers, such as their embodiment, emotions, relationships with others,
and social status, affect both their access to knowledge and the way
their knowledge claims are expressed, justiﬁed, and accepted as authoritative. The effects of these historical particulars need not be understood as negative or limiting; one possibility, for example, is
whether the emotional response to repression can offer the possibility
of epistemic privilege. In giving epistemic signiﬁcance to situated
knowers, feminist epistemologists are challenging the ideals and objectives of the traditional epistemological project: the possibility of a
universal account of knowledge produced by detached, abstract
knowers.
There is no one way in which this notion of situated knowledge is
approached. Feminist epistemological theories are often divided into
three types of approach using Sandra Harding’s 1986 taxonomy
(from the most radical to the least): postmodernist; feminist standpoint theory; and feminist empiricism. The latter two are part of the
analytic feminist project.
Feminist empiricism, broadly speaking, questions the rigid dichotomy that is traditionally drawn between the ideal of a pure objective
knowledge and the political values and social location of the knower.
Feminist empiricists argue instead that these latter elements can, and
should, inform empirical inquiry. The claim is that this approach not
only furthers the goals of feminism but also improves empirical inquiry itself, because it requires inquiry to be answerable to an actual
community of knowers, rather than to unrealizable ideals of objectivity.

78 •

EPISTEMOLOGY

Feminist standpoint theory, in essence, approaches the situatedness of knowledge by claiming that some socially situated perspectives can be epistemically privileged. Drawing on Marxist standpoint
theory that claims epistemic privilege for the proletariat, these feminist epistemologists claim that the standpoint of women offers epistemic privilege for understanding, for example, gender relations under
patriarchy. Standpoint theory does not automatically grant such
privilege to women as women, but rather to politicized (i.e., feminist)
women. Moreover, there is no one standpoint of women. The recognition of the multiple oppressions experienced by women of color
has led some philosophers to identify a speciﬁcally black female
standpoint as part of a black feminist philosophy.
A postmodernist approach holds that our ‘‘epistemic world’’ is
composed of the multiplicity and fragmentation of perspectives that
arise from the differences of situations among women due to class,
race, sexual orientation, and so forth. In this way, the postmodern
approach also criticizes the essentialist thinking that underpins the
notion of ‘‘woman,’’ both as an object of knowledge and as a knowing subject: the notion of a women’s standpoint.
In the most recent work in feminist epistemology, theories and perspectives from each of these three categories have been used to inform and improve the others; thus current theorists tend to resist an
easy allocation into these three categories. There has also been some
critical reﬂection on the feminist epistemological project itself. It has
been questioned whether this project, because it is grounded in a Eurocentric philosophical tradition, is open to charges of ethnocentrism.
The central aspects of this project are also open to a similar challenge. For non-Western women, there is a concern that an emphasis
on the epistemic privilege of the oppressed may romanticize, and
thus neglect, the material situation of that oppression; it may also
serve to gloss over the ambiguities non-Western women may encounter in the application of such a notion to their lives.
One response to these types of concern comes from Jane Duran’s
work on global feminist epistemologies. Duran argues that one
strand—although not the dominant strand—in Western feminist epistemology is the appropriation by feminist theorists and activists of
cultural knowledge as well as the traditional methods for gaining that
knowledge. Duran argues that this is also taking place within non-

EQUALITY •

79

Western communities and cultures: it is not simply a project of Western feminism. A central strength of Duran’s understanding of feminist epistemology, and her use of it as a lens to examine global
epistemologies, is that it allows for a culturally sensitive analysis of
global feminist epistemologies, an analysis that offers informative
cross-cultural comparisons between feminist knowledges and knowledge acquisition. See also EPISTEMOLOGY, MORAL; HUME,
DAVID.
EPISTEMOLOGY, MORAL. Prior to the 1980s, there was no work
that could properly be called feminist moral epistemology. Since the
1980s, however, developments in epistemology and feminist ethics
have given rise to questions about moral knowledge. One element of
particular importance that comes from feminist epistemology is the
concept of the situated knower: the recognition that the concrete and
historical particulars of the knower affect both access to knowledge
and the authority of claims to knowledge.
Feminist critics of the dominant paradigm of ethics in Western
philosophy have pointed to the ways in which ethics is framed on
a ‘‘scientiﬁc’’ model—a search for moral knowledge—speciﬁcally,
knowledge of abstract rules and formulas that can be applied universally. In conjunction with these criticisms, some philosophers have
offered alternative ways of constructing moral knowledge, often emphasizing understanding over certainty and guarantees of correctness. In these alternative epistemologies, there is a greater emphasis
on knowledge of particulars, especially the knowledge of particular
individuals in their concrete and historical contexts. This is in contrast to the goal of reliability and correctness in moral judgment central to the dominant paradigm and the corresponding need in this
paradigm for an impartial agent who judges cases in the abstract,
free of the particular features of a situation that may hinder rational
thought and decision-making. See also EXPERIENCE; RELATIVISM.
EQUALITY. The question of whether men and women are equal, and
in virtue of which characteristics are they equal, has been an important issue in the history of Western philosophy. The earliest systematized account of sex equality can be found in Plato’s Republic,

80 •

EQUALITY

where he argues that equal work and education for women are part
of the requirements of the ideal state.
Feminist philosophers from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries were part of the burgeoning feminist movement for women’s
civil rights: the right to vote and to own property. Given that the
traditional justiﬁcation for the denial of rights to women was that
they were not capable of reason—a criterion for holders of rights—
these early philosophers typically aimed to show women’s equal capacity for reason. This claim also entailed the need for additional
arguments that showed that any apparent differences in rationality
were the effects of differences in education and socialization.
Equal rights, equality of opportunity, and gender-neutral laws
formed the goal of the second wave of feminism in the 1960s and
1970s. There were differences of opinion as to how this goal could
be achieved. Theorists with a more conservative vision held that
equality could be accomplished within the existing system. Those
with a more radical vision held that this would only lead to a superﬁcial equality, and that true equality could be achieved only through
a rejection of the system itself.
Since the 1980s a questioning of the concept of equality itself,
from a variety of different viewpoints, has led to its becoming an area
of debate. In particular, it has been asked whether true equality can
be achieved only through a recognition of sex difference, and the
subsequent development of policies that reﬂect this difference. There
has been a recognition that gender-neutral laws, for example, may
ultimately produce discriminatory results, in particular in the private
sphere of marriage and family. Moreover, this ‘‘formal’’ equality
assumes that the goal is sameness to men, as well as afﬁrming—
rather than questioning—the value of the roles that have typically
been the province of men. In addition, feminist theorists have recognized that equal opportunity could not be produced solely through
legal equality in education and employment, as this would ignore the
structural inequalities generated by differences in socio-economic
background. In response to these difﬁculties, feminist theorists have
argued, for example, for changes in laws regarding maternity leave
and in support of more nuanced afﬁrmative action policies. On the
whole, this has meant that the debate about actual equality has become the province of feminist legal theorists.

ESSENTIALISM •

81

The central area of concern in the contemporary equality debate
for feminist philosophers has been in the conceptual arena of difference, identity politics, and gender. Anglophone feminist philosophy
has been greatly inﬂuenced by the analyses of difference that have
come from Europe, in particular from Italian, French, and Spanish
feminist philosophers. These analyses, implicitly or explicitly, reject
both the notion of equality, as this assumes sameness, and the notion
of difference, as this assumes that difference is connected to biology.
Furthermore, these theorists claim that the equality/difference debate
only has meaning within a system of language that has been constructed by patriarchy.
Another reason standard feminist thinking about equality has
come under attack (especially from theorists of color) is that it ignores or minimizes the social realities of women of color, or speciﬁc
differences among women. Finally, non-Western philosophers have
started to question whether the universalizing Western conception
of equality has a potentially colonizing nature for non-Western
women. See also JUSTICE; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
ESSENTIALISM. The term essentialism is sometimes used by feminist theorists interchangeably with universalism. For many feminist
theorists, however, a clear distinction can be made between the two
concepts. Universalism is a claim that women’s characteristics (or
those of other groups) are the same across culture, history, class,
race, and so forth. Essentialism also includes a claim that these characteristics are innate, ﬁxed, and unchangeable: there is an essential
‘‘woman’s’’ (or ‘‘man’s’’) nature. While universalist claims still offer
problematic generalizations about women, they do not necessarily
entail claims that these are speciﬁcally ‘‘womanly’’ characteristics.
The claim of a speciﬁcally female nature has, historically, been
grounded in biology; in current debate, it has often come to mean
simply a shared characteristic, without necessarily being grounded in
some theory about female biology. The particular characteristics of
‘‘woman’s’’ nature tend to vary depending on whether the notion is
being used by a feminist or a non-feminist. In the case of the former,
positive characteristics—such as peacefulness—are attributed to
women. Conversely, the essentializing of non-feminists tends toward

82 •

ESSENTIALISM

negative characterizations, such as the claim that women are overly
emotional.
The use of essentialisms was an important component of the arguments of ﬁrst wave feminists for women’s equality. The notion of
an essentialized woman was used, in particular by cultural feminists, to argue that women’s different characteristics were something
to be afﬁrmed, not devalued. First wave liberal feminists invoked an
essentialized human nature—usually characterized by reason—
that both sexes shared. The problem of essentialism surfaced with
critiques in the period after second wave feminism. Some theorists
claimed that, in demanding equality for ‘‘women,’’ feminists of the
second wave ignored differences among women, for example, of race
and class. Thus ‘‘women’’ signiﬁed only women of a certain group:
white, middle-class, and privileged.
The question of which feminist theory is essentialist is not a simple one. The charge is most often leveled at cultural feminism, but
not all cultural feminists are essentialist. Radical feminism is also
usually considered essentialist, because of its use of a timeless and
cross-cultural notion of ‘‘woman’’ who is the subject of male domination. It may also be present in some forms of ecofeminism: in
those cases when ecofeminism is grounded in generalizations about
the relation of women to nature. The charge of essentialism has been
leveled at the work of French feminists such as Luce Irigaray;
however, her supporters maintain that Irigaray is writing about the
symbolism of ‘‘woman’’ within Western thought, not the actual nature of women.
Despite the fact that ‘‘women’’ is a problematic notion, some theorists do not wish to abandon it completely, for political purposes.
Some theorists have considered whether there can be a strategic use
of ‘‘woman’’ as a political identity.
Since the 1980s, discussions of essentialism have grown increasingly complex. Feminist theorists have shown that gender identity is
not separable from other elements of our identities, such as race or
class. Essentialist notions of ‘‘women’’ not only produce this separation but serve to frame other elements of identity as surplus or added
extras. Moreover, some theorists claim that the notion of ‘‘woman’’
serves to normalize and delineate certain social, cultural, and sexual
behaviors. Judith Butler, for example, has claimed that the notion

EXISTENTIAL (EXISTENTIALIST) FEMINISM •

83

of ‘‘woman’’ is framed in opposition to ‘‘man,’’ which then reinforces the assumption that human sexuality is identiﬁed as heterosexuality.
Essentialist thinking may also be present within the feminist philosophical enterprise itself. Claims within subﬁelds such as epistemology or aesthetics about the existence of a ‘‘feminine’’ or ‘‘female’’
way of thinking, experiencing, or framing the world rely on essentialist thinking. Some work in the feminist history of philosophy also
runs the risk of essentialist thought through the critiquing of historical texts for their neglect of ‘‘women,’’ the experiences of women,
or women’s issues. Thus this type of analysis of historical texts may
problematically smooth out, or neglect, differences among women.
See also BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM.
ETHICS. See ANIMAL ETHICS; BIOETHICS; BLACK FEMINIST
ETHICS; CARE, ETHICS OF; ECOFEMINISM; EPISTEMOLOGY, MORAL; FEMININE ETHICS; FEMINIST ETHICS; LESBIAN ETHICS; MATERNAL ETHICS.
ETHICS OF CARE. See CARE, ETHICS OF.
ETHICS OF JUSTICE. See CARE, ETHICS OF; JUSTICE.
EXISTENTIAL (EXISTENTIALIST) FEMINISM. Existential feminist theory draws on ideas found in the work of G. W. F. Hegel,
Edmund Husserl, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre. It is usually identiﬁed with the pioneering thought of Simone de Beauvoir
in her 1949 work The Second Sex. However, other feminist philosophers have drawn from the existentialist tradition, most notably
Mary Daly.
Essentially, existentialist feminism locates the oppression of
women in their universal status as ‘‘Other’’ or object. Existentialist
feminists ground this notion on the general existential notion of the
relation between self and Other, where the subject self deﬁnes itself
in relation to a subjugated Other. It is through this relation that the
subject self is able to achieve transcendence. The crucial difference
for existential feminists is that this relation is not individual, but one
of groups: women are permanently Other to men, who are deﬁned as

84 •

EXPERIENCE

positive or the norm against a negative (female) Other. For existentialist feminists, liberation for women will come about through individual transcendence: becoming a self-realizing, authentic self.
Indeed, it is the ethical responsibility of the individual to realize her
potential as a free, self-creating subject. See also CONTINENTAL
PHILOSOPHY; SUBJECTIVITY.
EXPERIENCE. Within the feminist movement, the individual and collective experiences of women are of central political signiﬁcance.
The sharing of personal experience within consciousness-raising
groups has been a crucial strategy for identifying, and thus being in
a position to resist, institutionalized sexism.
This political use of the experiences of women also contributed to
philosophical theorizing about the possibility of a speciﬁcally feminist mode of gaining knowledge, or the possibility of ‘‘women’s
knowledge.’’ A foundational part of the task of feminist philosophy
is to explain the experiences of women and to offer theories that can
have, among other things, the practical effect of addressing and altering the experiences of women. At minimum, feminist philosophers
are wary of theories that reject personal experience; indeed, for many
feminist philosophers, the varied experiences of women can provide
an important political and epistemic resource. The use of women’s
experience in this way need not entail commitment to a view that
there is some universal set of women’s experiences, nor that these
experiences are related to some kind of essential female nature.
The use of women’s experiences as a resource has been of particular interest for work in feminist ethics, feminine ethics, and epistemology. Such theorizing typically rests on identiﬁably shared
experiences, but it can also use individual experience as a basis. Speciﬁc justiﬁcations for the methodological use of women’s experiences are, for example, that it can bring out different aspects of a
philosophical or scientiﬁc problem or that it can identify the ways in
which there are moral and political dimensions to knowledge. This
use of women’s experiences, and the theorizing about this use, also
functions as a critique of mainstream theories of knowledge and morality; these theories frame knowledge as universal, obtained by an
impersonal, objective, individual knower.
Given that differences in personal experience are traditionally not

FAMILY •

85

supposed to account for differences in philosophical theories or
viewpoints, work that uses personal experience as an epistemic resource may often be rejected by mainstream philosophy. A central
reason for this rejection is that philosophical work is expected to produce universal results as the end products of an objective process. In
response, feminist philosophers often point out that, historically, the
philosophical project itself has reﬂected and been grounded in the
experiences of men; thus this type of criticism may be groundless.
–F–
FACT/VALUE DISTINCTION. See VALUE NEUTRALITY.
FALSE CONSCIOUSNESS. The term false consciousness comes
from the Marxist tradition. Within this tradition, the term is employed to describe the thinking that prevents the development of a
true class consciousness: a recognition by members of the working
class of a unity among their desires and needs that will ultimately
lead to revolution. Essentially, false consciousness is a distorted perception of reality in which, for example, others are perceived as potential competitors for scarce goods, and work is viewed as a
necessary evil for the acquisition of those goods. Blinkered by this
false reality, the working class is unable to see how these ways of
thinking ultimately maintain the dominance of the capitalist class.
Feminists have adopted this term, in particular to explain how it is
that many women do not have a feminist consciousness; indeed,
many women may even explicitly reject feminism. Essentially, the
realities of women’s lives produce and conﬁrm a false consciousness;
this functions both to prevent women from recognizing their own oppression and to maintain male dominance. Some women, for example, have learned to identify their value solely in terms of their status
as sexual objects; this identiﬁcation is further reinforced by a distorted ‘‘feminist’’ consciousness that deﬁnes this way of thinking as
a form of postfeminist liberation. See also CONSCIOUSNESS
RAISING.
FAMILY. The institution of the family plays an important, if ambiguous, role in political and social philosophy. Traditionally, the family

86 •

FAMILY

is not only the site of reproduction but also, as a heterosexual institution, the site of private relations between individual men and
women.
For some feminist philosophers of the ﬁrst wave of feminism, the
family was seen as the location of women’s power. Women were prevented from entering the public sphere but could affect it indirectly
through their moral inﬂuence on husbands and children. For other
feminist philosophers of this era, however, the family was the barrier
to true equality, as women’s traditional duties prevented them from
having the time to enter the workplace or political life.
The institution of the family often plays a complex role in traditional political philosophy. While their theorizing about justice and
rights did not include the private sphere, and thus women, canonical
male philosophers often spent a surprising amount of time discussing
family relations and paradigms of the good family. Women’s role
was typically seen as one of producing good citizens. Unlike early
feminist accounts of the power of this role, however, this type of account ultimately made women invisible within the state, as this role
was performed within the private sphere.
Many of these original issues remain in contemporary feminist
philosophical work on the family. The family is still identiﬁed as the
site of the moral development and training of future citizens, but this
is now regarded as entailing state recognition and support of domestic labor, rather than being the responsibility of only women. Even
though feminists often resist traditional family structures, they recognize that outside the West, these structures will be harder to break
down. Thus it is generally agreed that there needs to be continued
focus on analyzing how the family is an economic trap, particularly
for non-Western women, and on offering solutions within traditional
family structures.
Feminist philosophers have often supplemented these critiques by
placing them within an analysis of the family as a political construction: the family is not a natural production. What goes on within families, for example, the lack of legal protection against domestic
violence, cannot be understood apart from the legal system; what
constitutes a family, for example, the paradigm of the nuclear family,
is the product of laws and political systems. Inclusion of the family
as a legitimate area of concern for political philosophy—as a political

FEMININE ETHICS •

87

entity—challenges the traditional notion that the family should be out
of the reach of state interference, as well as the standard political theorizing that focuses on, for example, the relation of the non-situated
individual to the state.
There is no general agreement over how much the family contributes to gender injustice and the power relations between men and
women: whether it is the primary cause or not. There is some disagreement, moreover, about whether the traditional family structure
is, by deﬁnition, oppressive. Some philosophers have argued that
maintaining the traditional family is important for women. Such philosophers claim that women are more inclined to nurture, whether
due to their psychology or biology; thus the solution for women’s
inequality is to value and support the role of carer.
Feminist philosophical work on the family is not restricted to abstract theorizing; it also entails the development of practical solutions
for social justice. These solutions for equality can be reformist in nature, for example, state day care. They can also be more radical,
premised on the assumption that only true freedom of choice can produce equality: for example, through multiple parenting as a new way
of forming and legalizing non-subordinating relationships among
adults and children. See also DIVISION OF LABOR, SEXUAL;
PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
FASHION. See BODY.
FEMININE ETHICS. There has been a long tradition of debate within
traditional moral philosophy over the notion of the existence of a
‘‘women’s morality,’’ one aligned with the traits of femininity. In
ancient Greek philosophy, for example, some of the female Pythagorean philosophers argued that women and men had different virtues and moral responsibilities. Within the philosophical canon, the
view that morality is gendered has typically led to the devaluation
of traditionally feminine virtues and characteristics, such as emotionality. This view is often connected to arguments for the reinforcement of women’s traditional social roles—for example, in the
philosophies of Immanuel Kant and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
Contemporary feminine ethics continues with this notion of morality as gendered but develops it in a different vein, with the inten-

88 •

FEMININE WRITING

tion of revaluing those aspects of human life that have been
traditionally identiﬁed as feminine, such as caring or compassion.
This revaluation may then lead to the development of a separate female ethic or to the addition of these aspects into mainstream masculinist ethics to produce a more balanced and inclusive picture of
morality.
As both feminine ethics and feminist ethics are women centered
and founded in some way on the moral experience of women, there
are clear connections between the two. They differ, however, in their
goals. The goal of feminine ethics is to develop a way of thinking
that can be seen to be a women’s way of thinking or that somehow
comes out of the moral experiences of women (for example, experiences of motherhood). This has meant that the charge of essentialism has sometimes been leveled at feminine ethics: that it argues for
a ﬁxed ‘‘woman’s’’ nature. Ethicists who self-deﬁne as feminist, on
the other hand, see the development of ethical theories and perspectives as part of the feminist political commitment to end the oppression of women (and other oppressed groups), rather than as a
revaluing or understanding of women’s different moral experiences
that need not entail political and social change.
Despite these deﬁnitions, it can be hard in practice to categorize
works in these two areas. Carol Gilligan, for example, argues for the
existence of different moral ‘‘voices’’ of men and women, yet she
sees her work as feminist because she maintains that these two voices
are different but equal. Maternal ethics, an ethics grounded in the
experience of mothering, can potentially be a feminine ethics or a
feminist ethics, or both. See also BLACK FEMINIST ETHICS;
CULTURAL FEMINISM.
FEMININE WRITING (ÉCRITURE FÉMININE). See BODY;
FEMININITY; FRENCH FEMINISM; IRIGARAY, LUCE; LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF; SEXUALITY.
FEMININITY. Feminist philosophers deﬁne femininity as the ideology that dictates appropriate gender behavior for women through a
system of rules (such as those that govern personal appearance), roles
(such as the role of wife), and socially valued traits (such as nurtur-

FEMININITY •

89

ance and empathy). The ultimate purpose of the ideal of femininity
is to make women pleasing to men.
Simone de Beauvoir was the ﬁrst feminist philosopher to recognize what is now an accepted tenet of feminism, that these roles,
rules, and traits constitute a cage for women, a cage constructed by
patriarchal society. She argues that not only are women forced to
play these roles, but they acquiesce in their own oppression through
an internalization of these roles, and thus an internalization of their
own inferiority. Both Francophone and Anglophone feminist theorists have followed Beauvoir in holding that femininity is constructed
as the negative, inferior ‘‘Other’’ to masculinity; the latter construct
is identiﬁed as the positive norm within patriarchal society. Indeed,
masculinity needs the Other both for its deﬁnition and its higher
status or value relative to femininity. Thus, despite the fact that the
ideal of masculinity is also a social construction, it functions differently from the ideal of femininity.
In Anglophone feminist theory in general, this notion of femininity as social construction is often used to provide the framework for
arguments for political change. If femininity is a social construction,
then those roles and characteristics attributed to women—which are
seen as justiﬁcations for their inferior social status—are not innate or
a product of their biology. Thus equality would be the result of the
abolition of gender. Not all feminists, however, are committed to
the abolition of the masculine/feminine binary. Some argue that the
path to equality is to revalue the traits associated with the feminine.
Moreover, for some Third World feminists, the possibility of a selfconstruction of femininity for women could be a means to empowerment.
In contemporary Anglophone feminist philosophy, a frequent use
of the concepts of femininity and masculinity is to demonstrate the
devaluing of women and the feminine in the Western philosophical
tradition. This tradition constructs reality within a framework of a set
of normative dualisms such as rationality/emotionality and civilization/nature. The ‘‘top’’ disjunct is the superior, and these superior
disjuncts are the elements that are culturally associated with men.
Thus reality replays the cultural valorization of men and the masculine.
At present, the most inﬂuential work on femininity comes from

90 •

FEMINIST ETHICS

French feminist thought. In French feminist philosophy, the masculinity of the discourse of traditional philosophical thought is challenged for its erasure of the feminine. Femininity is thus a
metaphorical position outside the dominant discourse, a position that
can allow a critique of the patriarchal symbolic order through the autonomous construction of ‘‘feminine’’ expression and language: an
écriture féminine. This concept of feminine writing breaks with the
more mainstream notion that there is a ﬁxed construction of femininity. Feminine writing is seen as writing ‘‘with the body’’: it is a writing that symbolically represents women’s bodies and sexuality and
their shifting nature. See also FOUCAULT, MICHEL; SEX.
FEMINIST ETHICS. Many historical feminist philosophers have
been interested in issues of morality, but there is little that amounts
to any kind of feminist tradition. Typically the work of these early
philosophers focuses on gendered morality, and thus tends to ﬁt better under the category of feminine ethics.
Ethical issues have always been an important component of contemporary feminist philosophy. It was not, however, until the late
1980s that book-length treatments of feminist ethics as a speciﬁc
topic were published. Thus far, most feminist ethicists have been
white Western women. There is some work being done by male philosophers and by philosophers of color; however, the latter may not
always accept the designation of ‘‘feminist,’’ due to the history of
racism within both the feminist movement and feminist theorizing.
Offering a precise deﬁnition of feminist ethics can be problematic.
It can be hard to draw clear boundaries between it and the other
women-centered ethics of feminine ethics and maternal ethics.
Moreover, given the inﬂuence of the work of psychologist Carol Gilligan on feminist ethical thinking, feminist ethics is held by some
philosophers, feminist and non-feminist alike, to be interchangeable
with the ethics of care.
Feminist ethics can be distinguished from these other ethics due to
its prioritizing of the analysis, and elimination, of the subordination
of women (and of other oppressed groups). Feminist ethicists offer
new perspectives on ‘‘applied’’ issues through their awareness and
analysis of relations of power: for example, the inequalities in health
care delivery among different groups. Feminist ethicists have also es-

FEMINIST ETHICS •

91

tablished new areas of examination. For example, the standard view
of cosmetic surgery is that it is simply a matter of free choice,
whereas feminist ethicists point to the ways that women undergo unnecessary surgery because of their internalization of patriarchal
standards of beauty.
On the theoretical side, feminist ethics functions as a critique of
the ideals, concepts, and concerns of traditional ethics. Feminist ethicists challenge the canonical tradition for its lack of concern for
women’s interests, its neglect of issues of particular importance to
women (the private realm in particular), its denial of women’s moral
agency, and its devaluation of the moral experience of women and
the characteristics culturally associated with the ‘‘feminine.’’ Feminist ethicists have argued that the traditional picture of the moral
agent is a construct of male ideals and is antithetical to the lived experience of women. The traditional moral agent is an autonomous
and impartial decision-maker. Because of the nature of this being,
‘‘his’’ rational choices will be made independently of particular historical and cultural contexts. Thus, if he decides well, he makes
choices that can be universally applied. Feminist ethicists have
pointed to the way that this ideal excludes women. For example,
women have not always been seen as rational, or their experiences in
their traditional roles of wife and mother are not those of an independent individual.
For some feminist philosophers, this male bias means that the
canon must be rejected altogether. Others respond to this bias by
seeing feminist ethics in terms of a reversal—for example, privileging the moral experience of women or offering a direct substitution
of ‘‘feminine’’ values for ‘‘masculine’’ ones. The potential problem
with this latter approach is that it will substitute one bias for another,
rather than offering a fully human ethics. Typically, however, the aim
of those working in feminist ethics is to counter male bias in ethics
through a reconceiving of the norms and a broadening of the scope
of philosophical ethics itself. The areas that have generated particular
interest are equality, impartiality, moral agency, autonomy, and
moral epistemology.
Alison Jaggar offers a widely accepted set of minimum conditions
for theoretical adequacy of any feminist ethics: feminist ethics recognizes that there are differences in the situations of men and women;

92 •

FEMINIST ETHICS AND SOCIAL THEORY

works toward an analysis of and resistance to the subordination of
women; can encompass the moral issues of the private realm as well
as the public; and acknowledges the moral experience of women.
Some postmodern feminists have also argued for a feminist ethics, despite claims that the postmodernist deconstruction of the ideals
and concepts of traditional Western moral philosophy leads to a nihilistic stance. The postmodernist approach is characterized by a resistance to the reframing of traditional moral philosophical concepts, a
resistance to the development of a unitary feminist morality, and an
insistence on the multiplicity of moral values and choices. See also
BIOETHICS; BLACK FEMINIST ETHICS; FEMINIST ETHICS
AND SOCIAL THEORY; LESBIAN ETHICS; OBJECTIVITY.
FEMINIST ETHICS AND SOCIAL THEORY (FEAST). FEAST is
a professional society in the United States. According to its mission
statement, it is ‘‘dedicated to promoting feminist ethical perspectives
on philosophy, moral and political life, and public policy.’’
FEMINIST THEORY. Early feminist theorizing focused on the goal
of social and political equality, although there was no one account
of how such equality could be accomplished. This early theorizing
about equality fell into two rough categories: it could be achieved
within the existing system, or it required an overturning of the existing patriarchal system. Starting in the 1980s, with the development
of theorizing about sex difference and gender, the ideal of equality
became an area of debate, in particular because it ﬂattens differences
among women. The goal of current theorizing is better understood as
the uncovering and analysis of the oppressions experienced by
women: their differences and interconnections, their causes, and the
formulation of strategies for their removal. There is no one feminist
theory and thus no one analysis or solution. Moreover, the wide variety of feminist theories that exist tend to resist easy categorization.
Some of the most central theories are: anarchist feminism, black
feminism, cultural feminism, ecofeminism, existentialist feminism, French feminism, global feminism, liberal feminism,
Marxist feminism, multicultural feminism, postmodern feminism, psychoanalytic feminism, radical feminism, and socialist

FOUCAULT, MICHEL •

93

feminism. See also FIRST WAVE FEMINISM; POSTFEMINISM;
SECOND WAVE FEMINISM; THIRD WAVE FEMINISM.
FILM, PHILOSOPHY OF. See AESTHETICS.
FINCH, ANNE. See CONWAY, ANNE FINCH.
FIRST WAVE FEMINISM. The term ﬁrst wave feminism (or old
wave feminism) refers to the period of challenges to the legal and
social inequalities of women from the mid-1800s to 1920 in the
United States and the United Kingdom. Activists worked for, among
other things, female suffrage, the right of women to own property,
the reform of marital laws, and education reform. Much of the feminist philosophy of this era reﬂects the concerns of these activists.
Harriet Taylor Mill, for example, holds that allowing married
women to work outside the home, and removing all laws related to
marriage, would give women both personal and economic independence.
Feminist philosophy of this period was not just within the liberal
feminist tradition; there was also a strong current of cultural feminist thought. While the two strands of thought shared a common goal
of social reform, they differed in their understanding of this goal. Essentially, liberal feminists aimed toward equality of the sexes produced through civil and political rights and freedoms. Cultural
feminists held that the liberation of women, understood as the opportunity for women to develop their cooperative nature, would beneﬁt
women as individuals. They held that it would also beneﬁt society
overall through the feminization of culture. See also SECOND
WAVE FEMINISM; POSTFEMINISM; THIRD WAVE FEMINISM.
FOUCAULT, MICHEL (1926–1984). French philosopher and historian of thought Michel Foucault was born in Poitiers, France. For
most of his academic life he was Professor of the History of Systems
of Thought at the Collège de France. Three stages can be identiﬁed
in his work, stages in which he examined different subject matter and
employed different methodologies. In the earliest work from the
1960s, he focused on such things as madness and medicine, reﬂected
in his book Madness and Civilization. In the second stage from the

94 •

FOUCAULT, MICHEL

1970s, he explored the relations between power and knowledge in
punishment and in sexuality, which he set out in Discipline and Punish and The History of Sexuality. The third and ﬁnal stage was on
ethics.
Foucault’s The History of Sexuality has been an important inﬂuence for postmodern feminist philosophical work on the body, sex,
sexuality, and the relations between knowledge and power. On the
whole, however, Foucault’s philosophy has been of little interest; his
work tends more to be the object of appropriation and use. Indeed,
for many feminist philosophers, his writings are best known through
Judith Butler’s analysis and use of his ideas. Typically, Foucault’s
thought is not transmitted in its pure form; rather, it is usually mixed
with other postmodern work. There are three main reasons for the
lack of interest in Foucault’s philosophy as a whole: he does not say
much about constructions of gender, he is not a feminist per se, and
his account of subjectivity may be in tension with the feminist enterprise. This latter element is a problem that many feminist philosophers see as common to all postmodern theorizing.
Foucault rejects the notion that power comes from centralized
sources. Power is not something one individual ‘‘has’’ over another;
rather, it is a set of material discursive practices that construct individuals. Power, in Foucault’s account, is exercised on the body, but
the subjection of individuals is not imposed on them, for example,
by force. Individuals correct and discipline themselves in accordance
with politically created norms. Even sex and sexuality are the product
of discourse. Knowledge and power are interconnected, which means
that knowledge is not in itself independent; it is tied to systems of
social control, and thus it is a tool of oppression.
For feminist philosophers, this provides a radical departure from
more conventional conceptions of gender and sex. Feminists usually
see gender alone as constructed: a mutable social overlay on a ﬁxed
sex. Foucauldian reconceptualization of gender has allowed feminist
philosophers to offer new analyses of the way that the norms of femininity serve to oppress women. In these new types of analysis, femininity is the normalization of the female body through a set of
disciplines enacted on the body. To be feminine requires the individual to follow the norms of femininity: women subject themselves to
a set of disciplinary practices, such as the adornment of the body to

FRENCH FEMINISM •

95

please men. Foucauldian feminist philosophers recognize the ambiguities inherent in this type of analysis; success in these practices
subordinates women, but it may also offer power to an individual because of her increased appeal to men.
Feminists inﬂuenced by Foucault also explore relations between
gender and sexuality. Judith Butler is the best known of feminist theorists on the subject of sexuality, and she draws on The History of
Sexuality for her analysis of the relations between sexuality and gender. For Butler sexuality, speciﬁcally heterosexuality, is an epistemic category—one that is constructed through discourses of
power—while gender is a set of regulatory practices for human behavior that function to support the system of heterosexuality. The
identity of men or women is constructed in opposition to the other;
this means not only that their identity is one of mutual dependence,
but that this dependence is constructed as a sexual need for the other.
Because it seems to be in tension with the feminist project, this
type of use of Foucault has been the subject of criticism. Foucault’s
analysis of power is about the way networks of power constitute individuals; however, without the possibility of one group constructing
another, Foucauldians can only talk about the gendering of individuals; they cannot discuss gender relations. The intelligibility of the notion of gender relations is important for feminist philosophers;
without this notion they cannot explain how the system of gender is
perpetuated, or why it is more oppressive to women.
If, as Foucauldians claim, individuals are constituted by social
practices, then the feminist call for autonomy for women is undercut. More generally, without the notion of a stable subject, feminist
politics becomes dissipated. The struggle against the oppressive system of gender requires that there be some notion of a female sex to
be liberated from this system. Thus, on the level of particular phenomena, a Foucauldian analysis of gender is useful as it shows ways
that a patriarchal system controls women. On the more general
level, it fails the feminist project, as it cannot offer an identiﬁable
political subject to liberate.
FRENCH FEMINISM. The term French feminism was originally
coined by feminists in the United States and the United Kingdom to
deﬁne the work that began coming out of France after the student

96 •

FRENCH FEMINISM

revolt of 1968, in particular the work of Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, and Hélène Cixous. On the whole, however, these French
thinkers tend to hold that there are more differences than similarities
in their goals and methods. French feminist thought is grounded in
Marxism, psychoanalysis, and poststructuralism, and it is inﬂuenced
by the thought of, among others, Jacques Derrida and Jacques
Lacan. French feminist thought is far from derivative, however, as it
is also a rejection of these male theorists for their failure to provide
an adequate account of sex difference.
For some feminist philosophers, these French feminists are more
properly placed under the general category of postmodernist. For
others, the use of the term French feminism serves to emphasize a
distinct shared perspective among these thinkers in their work on sex
difference, femininity, and language, for it is this shared perspective
that has been highly inﬂuential outside France. Of the three central
ﬁgures, only Irigaray has speciﬁcally addressed philosophy and the
philosophical tradition. Thus, while Kristeva and Cixous have had a
great inﬂuence on feminist theorizing in general, their work is rarely
discussed by philosophers. Even though French feminist work was
originally eschewed by Anglophone philosophers because of its complexity and challenging writing style, it is now a central inﬂuence on
feminist theory throughout the West.
French feminists, like all feminist theorists in one way or another,
are engaged with examining sex difference: the foundation of the
subordination of women. Anglo-American feminist philosophers
tend to engage in discussions of whether liberation can be best
achieved through equality or through the revaluing of difference.
French feminist work is an implicit rejection of this type of analysis,
because this analysis assumes both that difference is connected to
biology and that equality is about sameness. Moreover, these alternatives are challenges within society, whereas French feminists aim to
challenge the existing framework of discourse that gives these terms
meaning.
In essence, French feminists, through an examination of sex difference within the intellectual context of French philosophy and psychoanalysis, claim that sex difference is produced through the
operation of discourse, not biology. Sex identity is the construct of
patriarchal forms of representation and knowledge.

FRENCH FEMINISM •

97

In the patriarchal symbolic order, women are represented as the
negative ‘‘Other’’; this notion of otherness is inﬂuenced by Simone
de Beauvoir’s analysis of woman as Other. For contemporary
French feminists, however, the Other is understood as the symbolically feminine. It is not so much constructed through relations between self and other (which is Beauvoir’s account) as through
relations of meaning within the symbolic order. Thus femininity is
male deﬁned and has no meaning or existence outside patriarchal discourse.
In response, French feminists aim to create a different structure
of thought and speaking, a ‘‘feminine’’ form of expression—écriture
féminine—that operates outside the male symbolic order. These theorists do not write as the woman that is found in male discourse, but
rather outside this discourse. In this way, feminine writing serves to
disrupt masculine language and to make visible its exclusion of
woman and the feminine.
For Irigaray and Cixous, to do feminine writing is to write ‘‘with
the body’’ or to ‘‘write the body’’: this writing symbolically represents women’s bodies and sexuality. This speaking position is one
of both critique and meaning-making, but like female sexuality, it is
no one thing: it is multiple and ﬂuid. There is disagreement among
feminist theorists over the interpretation of the ‘‘body’’ in this context: whether it is a complex metaphor or also has some biological
signiﬁcance.
For Cixous, feminine writing has the power to challenge the dichotomous—male—thinking and writing of the Western intellectual
tradition within which women can only be conceived of in male
terms as a negative: for example, as ‘‘not man’’ and ‘‘not active.’’
Furthermore, it is within this framework that dominance and submission have existence and meaning. Feminine writing is ﬂuid and
changing like female sexuality. Thus it forms a challenge to the male
writing of the Western intellectual tradition which, like male sexuality, is linear and rooted in one location. Feminine writing is not a
negative enterprise; for Cixous, writing with the body opens up the
possibility of female knowledge, a knowledge that comes from desire, not reason.
For Irigaray as well, feminine ways of speaking are not just resistance and subversion but are also needed for the exploration of new

98 •

FREUD, SIGMUND

ways of knowledge. Irigaray aims to show what has been left out of
Western phallocentric representations. Women are not represented in
the philosophical tradition, as social language is masculine; female
sexuality does not have an existence, as it has no cultural representation. Thus the female has been left out of the knowledge generated
by the Western intellectual tradition.
Irigaray resists the deﬁnition of woman as the negative or Other of
man, for in the patriarchal symbolic order, woman only exists as a
reﬂection of man. She does not, however, offer an alternative conception of female sexuality—of what this sexuality is in reality—as this
would replay the maleness of the concept that sexuality is one thing.
She holds, instead, that female sexuality is unstructured, ﬂuid, and
multiple.
In creating a feminine language, a language of female sexuality,
Irigaray aims to subvert and resist Western philosophical thinking. It
is by using this female language that Irigaray offers criticism of the
‘‘male’’ language of science and logic in Western philosophy, which
then leads to her critique of the central concepts and ideals of the
Western tradition, such as neutrality and universality. Her work
functions as a critique of Western philosophy, as it resists the dominant structure of meaning: dualist thinking. Moreover, her critique
itself is a philosophy: it is meaning-making. This is not in the sense
that it is a uniﬁed or unique system; female language is multiple and
even inconsistent. In traditional philosophical thinking, these characteristics are problematic, as language is conceived as a ﬁxed set of
semantic elements that are open to dissection and analysis. The function of female language, however, is not the same as that of male
language; its goal is not to individuate and identify in order to
achieve knowledge, but to produce understanding and relationship.
See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF; CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY; IMAGINARY, PHILOSOPHICAL; SUBJECTIVITY.
FREUD, SIGMUND. See PSYCHOANALYTIC FEMINISM.
–G–
GENDER. Gender is the set of socially constructed behavioral and
psychological characteristics associated with masculinity and femi-

GENDER •

99

ninity. Feminists began using the term gender in the 1960s for the
social construction of what it means to be a woman, or a man, as
distinct from the biological sex of an individual. The signiﬁcance of
this distinction was that it undercut the problematic notion of biological determinism: that women’s biological sex determined a speciﬁc
set of psychological characteristics and social roles. Instead, feminists claimed, only biological sex is ﬁxed, while psychological and
intellectual characteristics are the product of socialization, speciﬁcally the patriarchal socialization that controls women’s social realities.
In the 1980s, theorists began to challenge the intelligibility of both
the sex/gender distinction and the conceptualization of gender in this
system. Theorists claimed that the physiology of the sexes, as well as
gender, could be affected by social interpretation and construction.
In some cultures, for example, the physical attributes of women are
partly formed through their level of nutrition, which in turn is dictated by their lower social status. Moreover, even though the sex/gender distinction challenges the problematic notion of biological
determinism, it still shares the same assumptions about the ﬁxed nature of human biology.
Theorists call attention to the fact that individuals are not gendered
simply as a man or woman; gender is constituted and understood
within other hierarchical systems, such as race and class. The romanticized motherhood, for example, of nineteenth-century American
white women was part of their femininity and was constructed
against the gender/race appropriate roles of black female slaves, who
were seen as breeders with little attachment to their children. Thus
masculinity and femininity are not unitary notions; rather the discussion should be of masculinities and femininities as a group of notions
that share characteristics in the way that family members resemble
each other.
In this way the feminist philosophical debate on gender moved
from analysis of the sex/gender system to a questioning of whether
‘‘woman’’ has any essential or unitary meaning. The current debate
has been dominated by the work of Judith Butler on gender identity.
For Butler, gender identity is a ﬂuid and unstable notion, and thus
one cannot claim that one ‘‘is’’ a woman. Butler argues that it is only

100 •

GENDER

within the system of heterosexuality that gender identity appears coherent, and in its turn supports this system.
In Butler’s account, gender identity is wrapped up with heterosexuality as part of the identity of men and women: they are deﬁned in
relation to each other. Thus they are mutually dependent, and this
need for the other is also constructed as a sexual need for their other:
their partner. Gender, for Butler, is a set of regulations for human
behavior that functions to support the system of heterosexuality.
Femininity/woman is not ‘‘real’’ but artiﬁcial—a set of codes performed on the surface of a body, male or female. Butler aims to demonstrate this notion that gender is performance through showing how
drag is a parody of that performance. Parodying these codes serves
to destabilize them, and thus to subvert the discourse within which
women are oppressed.
Butler does not mean that there is some ‘‘subject’’ beneath the performance who can choose what to perform; rather the performance
of gender is what constitutes this apparent subject. Thus the notion
of a self is also destabilized, for there is no self on which gender is
performed. In these ways, Butler is critiquing the claim that the separation of gender from sex can liberate women, for she holds that the
acceptance of a totalizing uniﬁed concept of gender serves merely to
reafﬁrm oppression. She argues that only outside the system of binary thinking can we understand how gender binaries function to oppress, and she claims that feminists should consider the possibility of
polymorphous identities as a replacement for gender.
For many feminist theorists, Butler’s rejection of the coherence of
gender identity is problematic. The feminist political goal of the end
to women’s oppression, and the analyses and strategies that accompany that goal, must be grounded in some kind of uniﬁed concept
of woman: a subject to liberate. There is no agreement among feminist philosophers on how this issue is to be resolved. Certainly, feminist philosophers now recognize that past generalizations about
‘‘women’’ have been false and overly simplistic. Thus some are considering, for example, ways that claims about ‘‘women’’ can function
just as strategies for the feminist political goal, without having any
ontological signiﬁcance. See also FOUCAULT, MICHEL; SUBJECTIVITY.

GILLIGAN, CAROL •

101

GENDER FEMINISM. See CULTURAL FEMINISM.
GILLIGAN, CAROL (1936– ). Psychologist Carol Gilligan is probably the best-known proponent of the ethics of care. Her major work
is In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s Development (1982). Gilligan makes three main claims in this work: that
there are two ways of speaking about moral problems (the voices of
‘‘care’’ and ‘‘justice’’); that care must be included in some way in the
moral domain; and that a focus on care is characteristically female.
While all three of these claims have been the focus of feminist criticism, the third claim has drawn the most criticism. Gilligan has qualiﬁed these three initial claims in more recent years, but her studies
still ﬁnd a connection between women and care.
In In a Different Voice, Gilligan’s main target is the work of educational psychologist Lawrence Kohlberg. Kohlberg developed a sixstage scale of moral development; the highest stage is a Kantian approach in which the person adopts a universal, impartial, autonomous point of view. While not all males are certain to reach this top
level, females are far less likely to reach it, and typically remain at
stage three on Kohlberg’s scale. This third stage is where a person
conforms to conventional moral norms in order to gain the approval
of others.
Gilligan argues that instead of this indicating women’s moral inferiority, these differences point to a different—but equal—way of
thinking about morality: a different moral ‘‘voice.’’ In Kohlberg’s
view of moral development, morality is framed as an ethic of justice
in terms of rights, fairness, and an impartial application of universally applicable principles. Contrary to this, the ‘‘different voice’’ of
women identiﬁed by Gilligan, the ethic of care, frames morality in
terms of responsibility, relationships, and a contextualized answering
of moral problems.
Gilligan does not hold that this different voice is innate. Instead,
she grounds her explanation of its existence on social object relations theory, claiming that the different voices of men and women
are the product of different processes of separation in childhood from
the primary caretaker, usually the mother. In essence, social object
relations theorists hold that the female child does not completely separate from the mother; thus her sense of self as a woman becomes

102 •

GILMAN, CHARLOTTE PERKINS

identiﬁed with relationality and caring. In the case of the male child,
the development of a gendered identity is achieved through a distancing and separation from the mother. In this way, therefore, the
moral voices of men and women reﬂect their differing experiences
of attachment with others. Men are able to assume a position of objectivity in making moral decisions, whereas women make these decisions within a framework of connectedness with others.
The relationship that Gilligan sees between the two ethics is not
completely clear. Originally in In a Different Voice, Gilligan claimed
that the justice and care orientations could converge. In later work,
she claims that justice and care are two different perspectives through
which to see a moral situation that can be alternated by most individuals. Here Gilligan uses an analogy of the visually ambiguous ﬁgure
of the duck-rabbit (an image that viewers can interpret it as a duck or
a rabbit) to clarify the relationship between the two moral perspectives: the two perspectives are related, but cannot be easily integrated.
The strength of Gilligan’s claim about the relationship between
gender and moral voice has often been misinterpreted. Gilligan is
clear that she is not making universal claims about all men or all
women, but about tendencies in their thinking. Even this more limited claim, however, may still leave her work open to charges of essentialism: the claim that there is a ﬁxed ‘‘woman’s’’ nature. Gilligan
responds to these charges in more recent works, where she states that
the different voices are learned, rather than biologically determined.
Even with these charges answered, some feminist critics maintain
that an unpoliticized analysis of the connections between gender and
care—the type offered by Gilligan—will not serve to further the liberation of women, and may instead reinforce gender oppression. See
also FEMININE ETHICS; FEMINIST ETHICS; SUBJECTIVITY.
GILMAN, CHARLOTTE PERKINS (1860–1935). Charlotte Perkins Gilman, the American philosopher and feminist, was born in
Hartford, Connecticut. She is probably best known for her works of
feminist ﬁction, such as ‘‘The Yellow Wallpaper’’ (1892) and Herland (1915). Gilman developed a social philosophy grounded in Reform Darwinism, the theory that humans are active participants in
their own evolution. Her central argument is that women’s oppres-

GLOBAL FEMINISM •

103

sion is the main impediment to social progress, and that human progress requires the active participation of women in the social world.
In her 1898 work Women and Economics: A Study of the Economic
Relation Between Men and Women as a Factor in Social Evolution,
Gilman aims to demonstrate the relation between women’s oppression and the thwarting of human progress. She argues that the economic and social dependence of women on men is unnatural and that
this dependency relation affects both sexes. Gilman holds that
women are parasitic on men and that this has stunted women’s development. As their survival depends on male support, women have
been forced to develop only those characteristics that will help them
get this support, speciﬁcally those characteristics that are pleasing to
men. In their turn, men’s progress is hindered by the burden of this
relationship.
Gilman argues that only sweeping social change can dismantle this
relationship and thus make human progress possible. In her 1911
work The Man-Made World; or, Our Androcentric Culture, Gilman
calls for a matriarchal world to replace the androcentric world; she
holds that this world would be one that reﬂects women’s characteristics of cooperation and peacefulness, as opposed to the destructive
characteristics of men. She depicts the progressive nature of the female world in her 1915 novel Herland, a utopian vision of a matriarchal society.
Gilman’s criticism of androcentric society is wide ranging. She
saw that male bias extended throughout culture; it was not just present in institutions such as marriage. In His Religion and Hers: A
Study of the Faith of Our Fathers and the Work of Our Mothers (ca.
1923), she critiqued the male bias both in the history of philosophy
and in the philosophy of her contemporaries. She argues for a philosophy that also incorporates women’s philosophy, claiming that this
is the only way to produce a truly human philosophy: one of human
progress. See also CULTURAL FEMINISM.
GLOBAL FEMINISM. As with all feminist theories, the deﬁnition
and boundaries of global feminism are contested. Global feminist
theory does not just focus on women’s oppression, but on the multiple oppressions experienced by women of all cultures and nations.
A central focus on gender oppression is seen as something of more

104 •

GOLDMAN, EMMA

concern for privileged women in the First World, whereas the central
concern of global feminists is the way that political, economic, and
social policies and practices oppress peoples of the Third World.
Global feminists, therefore, often focus on making visible the control
of people and resources that support international capital. The analyses of gender oppression offered by global feminists are often made
within the context of how ‘‘globalization’’ affects women. Global
communication systems, for example, may help liberate women
through access to information; however, these systems also allow industries to operate in areas where the (female) workforce is cheapest.
The conceptual divide between First and Third Worlds is a doubleedged sword for global feminists, as it produces tendencies in Western feminist theorizing to view Third World women not only as constituting a universal, but as ‘‘Other’’ (outside or in opposition to the
Western ‘‘norm’’).
This division of worlds also brings with it the assumption for
Western feminists that Third World women are unable to provide the
proper tools of analysis of their own oppression. The reasons for this
assumption are the impression that these women cannot see beyond
their culture, and that they do not have the social advantages, such as
education, of white Western women. Furthermore, global feminists
point to the way that this conceptual divide hides the fact that the two
are connected in reality: for example, the oppression of Third World
women can provide economic beneﬁts to women of the First World
through the production of cheap consumer goods. These analyses can
then mean that global feminists hold that, before women can achieve
their own speciﬁc liberation, the alleviation of oppressive political,
economic, and social policies and practices is necessary. Some
global feminists have adopted the word ‘‘womanist’’ (originally
coined by Alice Walker) to bring out this primary commitment to all
Third World peoples. See also EPISTEMOLOGY; INDIA, FEMINISM IN.
GOLDMAN, EMMA (1869–1940). The anarchist and feminist philosopher Emma Goldman was born of Jewish parentage in czarist
Russia. Much of the information about Goldman’s life can be found
in her 1931 autobiography, Living My Life. Goldman was given little
formal education, but the period she spent in St. Petersburg exposed

GOLDMAN, EMMA •

105

her to revolutionary ideas and writings. In 1886, she emigrated to
New York, where she worked in a factory making overcoats. Goldman credits the trial and martyrdom of the Chicago anarchists—the
Haymarket martyrs—as the catalyst for her move from mere sympathy with revolutionary ideals to revolutionary activism. She is buried
with the Haymarket martyrs.
Goldman’s anarchist philosophy leads to and underpins her feminist philosophy. The cornerstone of her political philosophy was her
belief in individual freedom and development; her anarchism does
not imply some kind of state of chaos but rather requires the absence
of government. She criticizes the way that the state controls people,
not just through its laws and physical forces, but through such statesanctioned institutions as schools, the church, and marriage. Goldman argues that once people are free of such government, they will
quite naturally cooperate and aid each other. Her notion of the freedom of the individual is thus sharply contrasted with the individualism of capitalist America. She holds that once there is a new social
order, human nature has a measure of ﬂexibility that would allow it
to change in this way; however, she also maintains that this nature
has some core elements that are immutable, speciﬁcally the love of
freedom.
In Goldman’s feminist philosophy, this belief in freedom took the
form of a belief in sexual freedom for women. In 1911, she published
some of her lectures, including four feminist essays, as a collection,
Anarchism and Other Essays. In ‘‘Marriage and Love,’’ she argues
that the ideal relationship between the sexes is one of complete independence and equality in a partnership of free love, whereas the institution of marriage is one of economic dependency and subsequent
oppression for the woman. Goldman sees the institution of marriage
as an economic arrangement that restricts the freedoms of both sexes,
albeit to a different degree. The man is not free in that he must pay;
far worse, the woman becomes a useless dependent. Goldman draws
parallels with the infantilization of the worker produced by capitalism and the infantilization of women produced by marriage: both
stunt the growth and independence of humans, and then offer humiliating charity to support them. She rebuts claims that the institution
of marriage serves to protect children and claims instead that only in
a state of freedom can women truly love their children and partners.

106 •

GOUGES, OLYMPE DE

In ‘‘The Trafﬁc in Women,’’ Goldman argues that capitalist exploitation of labor and social hypocrisy create prostitution. She demonstrates how the low wages of working women force them into
prostitution and how, once women have become prostitutes, the sexual double standard will keep them on the margins of society. The
other two essays, ‘‘Woman Suffrage’’ and ‘‘The Tragedy of Women’s
Emancipation,’’ form a critique of the women’s liberation movement.
In keeping with her anarchist views, Goldman argues against the
women’s liberation movement, claiming that its supporters do not
recognize that real liberation for women is connected to personal and
sexual freedom.
GOUGES, OLYMPE DE (MARIE DE GOUZES) (1748–1793).
Marie de Gouzes, born in Montauban, France, was the self-educated
daughter of a butcher; she lived in Paris during the period in which
she was writing. Olympe de Gouges is the name under which she
wrote plays as well as political pamphlets. Her philosophical writings
have a theoretical basis; typically, her arguments are grounded in natural law, and she critiques the arguments of other philosophers. Her
writings also have an activist component, in that she often includes a
call to action for the social and political change she is discussing. In
keeping with this activism, Gouges sometimes explicitly called for
greater solidarity among women to work for these changes.
Her work is provocative for its time, for her calls for the rights of
women were calls for the rights of all women and men. She was the
ﬁrst feminist to see what is now called the interconnections between
sexism and racism. Her 1788 Réﬂexions sur les Hommes Nègres (Reﬂections on Black Men), which argues for the equality of black people and against the existence of natural racial differences, is one of
the earliest critiques of the treatment of people of color.
Gouges’s best-known work is also her most philosophical. She
claimed that the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen
did not cover women, and thus it was necessary for her to write her
1791 treatise Déclaration des Droits de la Femme et de la Citoyenne
(Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen). Based
on natural law, she argues for the equality of women: speciﬁcally, for
political equality; equal opportunity in education and employment;
equal protection under the law; and the right to property after mar-

GOURNAY, MARIE DE •

107

riage. Gouges ends her call for the equality of women with a critique
of the treatment of black people and a renewed call for the equality
of all people.
Gouges’s last work, Les Trois urnes, ou le Salut de la patrie, was
an argument that government in France should be chosen by a general vote. It was her attempt to publish and distribute this work that
led to her arrest on suspicion of being a royalist; she was found guilty
and sentenced to death. It would appear that her views on the equality
of women were also a factor in her death sentence. See also RACE
AND RACISM.
GOURNAY, MARIE DE (MARIE LE JARS DE GOURNAY)
(1566–1645). French philosopher Marie de Gournay was born in
Paris, where she lived most of her life. Little is known about her
childhood, but it would appear that she was mainly self-educated.
She admired and was a friend of Michel de Montaigne, who gave her
the title of ‘‘ﬁlle d’alliance’’ (adopted daughter). Gournay wrote the
preface for the 1595 edition of Montaigne’s Essays, which also functioned as a philosophical defense of them. Gournay was well known
among the intellectual circles of her time. The Dutch philosopher
Anna Maria van Schurman refers to the inﬂuence of Gournay on
her own work. While many of Gournay’s works contain feminist
themes, her two explicitly feminist works are Egalité des hommes et
des femmes (The Equality of Men and Women), published in 1622,
and Grief des Dames (Complaints of Women), published in 1626.
Egalité is original in that Gournay argues against her male opponents by explicitly drawing on arguments for the equality of women
from works written by men. Among the philosophers cited are Seneca, Montaigne, Plutarch, and Plato. Her work is also notable for
being an early defense of the view that, beyond basic biological differences, sex differences are a product of the environment. Moreover,
she appears to hold that all humans are fundamentally equal: for example, she claims that the only difference between the ruler and the
ruled is that the former has been given the power to look after the
latter. Grief is an argument for the inclusion of women in intellectual
debate, and a criticism of those who wish to exclude women. She
critiques the sexism of those who automatically ﬁnd the writing of

108 •

HEALTH CARE ETHICS

women to be bad, but who admire men even when they have nothing
but their sex to recommend their conversation or writing.

–H–
HEALTH CARE ETHICS. See BIOETHICS.
HEGEL, GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH. See ALIENATION;
CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY; EXISTENTIAL FEMINISM;
SECOND SEX, THE.
HETEROSEXISM/HETEROSEXUALITY. Heterosexuality (a sexual relationship between people of the opposite sex) has been an important issue for feminism since the 1970s. Feminist philosophers
have focused on the clariﬁcation of concepts of heterosexuality, and
on analyses of the ways that heterosexuality is valued and privileged.
The fundamental question is whether the social behaviors that make
up the institution of heterosexuality are natural or socially constructed. The term compulsory heterosexuality—ﬁrst used by Adrienne Rich—refers to the assumption that heterosexuality is innate,
and therefore justiﬁes the resulting social reinforcement of heterosexuality.
For some feminist philosophers, heterosexuality is a political and
ideological system that functions to maintain the subordination of
women. They claim, for example, that the system of heterosexuality
reinforces the sexual division of labor, as well as socially dictated
norms of gender behavior, such as passivity and vanity in women.
However, not all groups of women are subordinated in the same way
by heterosexuality. It has been claimed that ‘‘normal’’ female heterosexuality is identiﬁed with the sexuality of white women. The boundaries of female heterosexual behavior are formed by being set up in
normative opposition to social constructions of women of color, who
are stereotyped as problematically oversexed and assertive. Thus not
only do women of color function as the inferior group, against which
appropriate behavior is framed, but they can be excluded from the
social acceptance that accompanies this behavior.
Feminist philosophers have also analyzed how heterosexism, the

HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY •

109

assumption that heterosexuality is the norm, makes women reluctant
or unlikely to challenge this system. The system is invisible: heterosexuality is so much the norm that sexuality itself has become identiﬁed with it. The assumption that heterosexuality is the norm also
functions to assert its superiority over homosexuality; this plays out
in the ways that homosexuals are subordinated by being labeled as
deviant or being made invisible. See also LESBIAN PHILOSOPHY.
HILDEGARD OF BINGEN (1098–1179). Hildegard of Bingen was
born in Bermesheim near Alzey, Germany. She entered the double
monastery on Mount Disibod when she was about ﬁfteen and later
became its abbess. Hildegard was not exclusively a philosopher-theologian; her extensive writing covered a range of topics, including
drama and science. Her best-known philosophical-theological work
is Scivias (Know the Way).
Strictly speaking, Hildegard of Bingen cannot be considered a
feminist, or even a protofeminist. However, her contribution to the
discussion of the relations between the sexes has been acknowledged; she was the ﬁrst thinker to set out a systematized account of
sex complementarity. Hildegard held that the sexes were different
in their knowledge, relation to God, and virtue, but she argued that
these differences were equal.
For Hildegard, the creation of men and women in the image of
God was a reﬂection of the bisexuality of the divine. Hildegard held,
furthermore, that this meant both masculine and feminine elements
were present in the human soul, and that each sex should aim to develop its ‘‘opposite’’ side or elements. This is reﬂected in Hildegard’s
personiﬁcation of the virtues as female knights, characterizing the
virtues as containing both male (e.g., strength) and female (e.g.,
grace) elements. The goal of wisdom for both sexes, which Hildegard
identiﬁed with self-knowledge, was understanding their nature as
men or women; even though the content of their knowledge would
differ, the goal was shared.
HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY. The feminist examination of the history of philosophy can be seen as providing one of the central catalysts for the feminist philosophical project. There are three main
strands in this ﬁeld. Canon critique started in the 1970s, and was

110 •

HOBBES, THOMAS

one of the earliest forms of feminist history of philosophy. On its
most basic level, it is the project of examining texts for their exclusion or marginalization of women, and their neglect of women’s interests, such as child-rearing, that come out of women’s lived
experience. At a more complex level, it can be the examination of
texts for gendered concepts: for example, the way that reason is represented as masculine. The second central strand of feminist history
of philosophy is the consideration of possible ways in which the
canon can be appropriated for feminist use, although some feminist
philosophers maintain that the sexism of the canon is too engrained
for the canon to form a politically legitimate foundation. The third
central strand is the recovery of neglected or forgotten women philosophers from the past.
Coming out of these strands is one of the central projects of feminist history of philosophy: the examination of the enterprise and ideals of philosophy to ﬁnd whether, at its very core, it is a genderneutral enterprise. A particularly common claim of this type of approach is that traditional ideals reﬂect cultural ideals of masculinity
as well as the experiences of men that are the result of their political
and social status. Thus philosophy itself is not a natural kind, but a
gendered construction. In addition, some philosophers ask whether
the intersectionality of gender with race and class also played a part
in the construction of philosophy itself.
These projects have prompted recent work in Anglo-American
feminist philosophy on the meta-questions of the history of philosophy. Feminist philosophers challenge mainstream accounts of the
project of the history of philosophy, in particular for the abstraction
of philosophy from its context, and for the framing of the history of
philosophy as a series of attempts to answer a set of timeless questions. They offer feminist history of philosophy as an alternative approach, one that simultaneously examines texts within their
particular historical and cultural contexts and assesses the way that
these texts can speak to present-day feminist thought. These historians of philosophy are also engaging in self-reﬂection on their own
project: for example, through the assessment of whether gender alone
is the most fruitful lens for the examination of historical texts.
HOBBES, THOMAS. See CONTRACTARIANISM; CONWAY,
ANNE FINCH.

HUMAN NATURE •

111

HUMAN NATURE. For feminist philosophers, the question of
whether there is a ﬁxed, identiﬁable human nature has been a pivotal
but controversial issue. With any philosophical discussion of human
nature, feminist and non-feminist alike, the problematic question of
sex-differentiated natures is inevitably raised. The notion of a human
nature has been accompanied by a history of denial of some of its
constitutive characteristics to women, with the result that women
have been denied full humanity and its attendant privileges and
rights. Indeed, the differences in the natures of the two sexes were
seen as both the cause of and justiﬁcation for their differences in social status.
The traditional notion of a single, although divided, human nature
has its roots in ancient Greek philosophy. Human nature was sometimes framed in terms of a simplistic dualism between soul or reason
and body. A more complex notion of a divided soul with the distinct,
but interactive, elements of reason and the non-rational was developed in the philosophy of Plato. In both conceptions, reason is the
superior element. Feminist philosophers have argued that reason is
only superﬁcially gender neutral, for historically it has been metaphorically and culturally associated with men or ‘‘maleness.’’ Thus
early philosophical notions of human nature are suspect.
Prior to the eighteenth century, the notion of sex-differentiated natures was framed in terms of women’s relative lack of the capacities
that were identiﬁed as the particular characteristics of human nature.
During the eighteenth century, the notion of a gender-hierarchical
continuum along a shared nature began to be replaced by theories
that maintained that psychological and intellectual differences were
grounded in biological difference. The question of the relationship
between women’s biologically different capacity for reproduction
and their oppression has remained central for feminist philosophy.
More recently, feminist philosophers have focused on the question
of what it means to say that women and men have different natures,
and indeed, whether this question itself is legitimate. The more general issue of human nature became subsumed in the 1980s into the
sex/gender debate and the essentialism/anti-essentialism debate.
Some feminist philosophers, however, have continued to maintain the
notion of a speciﬁcally human nature for its political power. One of
the two main approaches to this is the use of the notion of a shared

112 •

HUME, DAVID

human nature for the claim that women’s rights are speciﬁcally
human rights. This claim requires an understanding both of a human
nature with its attendant rights and of the speciﬁc way that women’s
oppression is linked to sex difference. The other main approach is to
frame human nature in terms of human functioning and thus argue
for social policies and rights that will produce equal opportunities
for the human ﬂourishing of both men and women. This latter approach has been seen as fruitful for the creation of policies to aid
Third World development. See also BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM; LIBERAL FEMINISM; RADICAL FEMINISM; SOMATOPHOBIA.
HUME, DAVID (1711–1776). Scottish philosopher David Hume is
often seen as the foremost Anglophone philosopher. Hume’s most
important philosophical works are A Treatise of Human Nature
(1739–1740), Enquiries Concerning Human Understanding (1748),
and Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion (1779). He is also
known as an essayist and historian. Hume was born in Edinburgh and
studied at the university there. After completing his university studies, he lived for a time in France, then went to England in 1737 in
order to publish the Treatise. He was never accepted for an academic
position, but he was librarian for the Edinburgh faculty of advocates.
Hume’s major work, A Treatise of Human Nature, has thus far
been the most fertile for feminist discussion. Hume’s account of the
virtue of chastity in the Treatise (III.2.12) has generated the most attention. Hume argues for the double standard of male/female chastity, claiming that it is based on social utility: men need the assurance
of paternity in order to shoulder the costs and responsibilities of rearing children, and this beneﬁts society as a whole. On the one hand,
Hume can be condemned for the fundamental sexism of his different
standard for the virtue of women. On the other, Hume can be praised
for recognizing that the greater propensity for chastity in women is
merely the product of a necessary socialization. Thus, for Hume, the
subordination of women is not justiﬁed by any natural inferiority.
This is in contrast to prevalent views of the time: for example, that
chastity was an innate characteristic, or punishment for the natural
immorality of women.
Throughout many of his works, however, Hume explicitly states

HUME, DAVID •

113

that women are intellectually inferior to men. This view may not be
of much concern, as it reﬂects a common cultural view of the time.
The question has been whether it plays out in Hume’s philosophy
more generally. One consideration is his view that women’s intellectual weaknesses stem in part from their greater tendencies toward
what he calls the ‘‘violent’’ passions. For Hume, it is the calm passions that are requisite for the truly moral individual. Even though he
does not state this, this view entails that women are less likely to
achieve full moral development.
For Hume, the potential of the calm passions for control over the
violent passions has led people to misidentify them as purely an operation of our intellect: reason. Thus he does not adopt the dominant
view of traditional philosophy of the dualism between reason and
passion, a view that feminist philosophers claim identiﬁes the former
as masculine and the latter as feminine. Some interpreters have
questioned whether it is the case that other concepts instead become
masculinized or feminized for Hume; for example, the ‘‘male’’ philosopher must struggle with a ‘‘female,’’ and potentially unruly,
imagination. On the whole, however, Hume’s anti-rationalist project
has been seen as open to feminist reconstruction. The fact that the
passions and relationality, concepts that have been traditionally
aligned with the feminine, play a central role in his account of knowledge and morality has had a particular appeal for work in both feminist ethics and feminine ethics, as well as work in feminist
epistemology. In the case of Hume’s epistemology, feminist readings have also contributed to the recent development in Hume scholarship—which originated with Norman Kemp Smith—of no longer
reading Hume as a purely negative skeptic. Instead, Hume is also
seen as offering a positive account of knowledge, a ‘‘naturalized’’
epistemology.
Although the work of Annette Baier should not be categorized as
solely informed by feminist interests and issues, it has been in the
forefront of feminist reading of Hume’s work for its previously neglected positive project; Baier sees this as a pertinent project for
contemporary philosophy. Of speciﬁc interest for feminist epistemologists is a social epistemology that Baier identiﬁes in Hume’s philosophy. Instead of allowing epistemic authority to the proofs generated
by a distant abstract reason, Hume allows that custom of thought, and

114 •

HYPATIA: A JOURNAL OF FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY

some social behaviors, can provide validation. Custom alone is not
enough; it must survive reﬂective scrutiny. This scrutiny is a moral
one in the Humean sense of morality: what is useful for human wellbeing, broadly conceived. In this way, (informed) passions as the
source of morality become connected to reﬂection. This, however, is
not the reﬂection of the lone individual; rather, collective and cooperative reﬂection establishes what is to count as knowledge. Given the
epistemic signiﬁcance of both emotion and the situated knower for
feminist epistemology, it could be claimed that Hume is a ‘‘woman’s
epistemologist.’’
As part of her work on Hume’s moral philosophy, Baier considers
the ways Hume’s moral theory connects with Carol Gilligan’s work
on the moral perspectives of women. In essence, for Hume, the task
of morality is directed toward the problem of human cooperation.
Like the moral life of women identiﬁed by Gilligan, Humean moral
life is characterized by connectivity, the concrete, and a reliance on
custom or convention. Central elements that can be identiﬁed in
Hume’s thinking as ‘‘female’’ on a Gilligan-type account are:
Hume’s claims that morality is ultimately based on feeling; that justice is a virtue that has its origins in cooperative family life; and that
some virtues are relational. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
HYPATIA: A JOURNAL OF FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY. The journal Hypatia is devoted to the publication of feminist philosophy. It
has been published in the United States since 1986. The journal is
named after Hypatia of Alexandria, one of the most famous teachers
of philosophy in late fourth- and early ﬁfth-century Alexandria, the
epicenter of learning at that time.

–I–
IMAGINARY, PHILOSOPHICAL. The philosophical imaginary is
a way of philosophical enquiry, developed by the French feminist
Michèle Le Doeuff, that has inﬂuenced feminist rethinking of textual
interpretation. Unlike Jacques Lacan, who uses the term in a psychological context, Le Doeuff uses the term in the context of the imagery
in written texts. She argues that, while philosophy is often claimed

IMPARTIALITY •

115

to be a rational, abstract, and logical enterprise—rather than a story
or a picture—philosophical texts contain many different pictures,
symbols, and metaphors.
This philosophical imagery, however, is traditionally held to be of
no importance for textual interpretation. Le Doeuff argues, instead,
that these images should be seen as part of the philosopher’s enterprise, and examined accordingly. She states that such images cannot
simply be dismissed as tools for the philosopher who wants to communicate with a non-philosophical audience. She shows that there is
no one way these images function. They can point to difﬁculties in
the text, and they can also work for the text if they support an element, or elements, needed by the system that the system itself does
not contain.
Le Doeuff does not justify her approach as a ‘‘woman’s’’ approach. She does, however, recognize that criticism of her approach
will be rooted in stereotypes of the way women are supposed to read
philosophical texts, with a focus on the stories, and with an inability
to see a complete system for the details. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
IMPARTIALITY. The concept of moral impartialism is present in different forms in both the two major traditions, Kantianism and Utilitarianism, of modern Western moral philosophy. Moral impartialism,
in its essence, is the requirement of equal consideration of all involved parties without favoritism or bias. Thus impartialism requires
the moral agent to remain detached from the situation, and to employ rational, rather than emotional, moral thinking.
With the development of feminist synoptic interpretations of the
philosophical canon in the 1980s, the ideal of impartiality started
to be criticized for its masculinist nature. It has been argued that,
historically, impartiality has been an inaccessible ideal for women
as moral agents, due to the cultural association of women with the
emotions, and the way that the traditional female roles (of wife and
mother) have meant that women’s lives are bound up in a network
of relationships and attachments.
More recent criticism has focused on whether, given the inherently
social nature of the self, this ideal can be achieved, as it requires us to
reason detached from our history, embodiment, and social location.

116 •

INDIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN

Moreover, feminist philosophers have questioned whether impartial
reasoning is applicable to personal relationships, especially given the
fact that impartialism may require that we put these relationships to
one side for the welfare of strangers.
In part as a response to these difﬁculties, work is being done on
demonstrating the moral value of partiality. Marilyn Friedman, for
example, argues that partiality is valuable because it is essential to
the promotion of close personal relationships, which are themselves
necessary for human fulﬁllment and well-being. This does not entail,
however, that all personal relationships are inherently valuable or unproblematic,
In political philosophy, impartiality has also come under feminist
criticism, in particular for its role in theories of justice. It has been
argued that impartiality can serve, in practice, to disguise or even
promote social hierarchies. The impartial application of gender-neutral workplace leave policies, for example, ignores the greater need
women have for personal leave, as women typically bear the responsibility of the caretaking of ill family members. While this may not
indicate that feminist philosophers should abandon the notion of impartiality for political philosophy altogether, it does show that it
should be treated with caution. See also FEMINIST ETHICS; OBJECTIVITY; UNIVERSALISM.
INDIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. A number of feminist theorists and cultural critics living in the West originally came from India:
for example, Chandra Mohanty, Uma Narayan, and Gayatri Spivak.
Their position as both outside and inside the Western world has been
the driving force for their analyses of the problematic nature of Western feminist theorizing about Third World women. They have
shown, for instance, that it has been hard for Western theorists to
avoid creating universalizing theories about Third World women:
theories that marginalize the differences between these women. Despite their contributions to global feminist thought, Mohanty, Narayan, and Spivak cannot be labeled Indian feminist theorists.
Any feminist philosophizing that comes from within India about
the liberation of women in India, or theorizing about a speciﬁcally
Indian feminism, will need to draw on Indian intellectual and cultural
traditions. There are potential problems with the development of an

INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT •

117

Indian feminist philosophy. The subject ﬁeld itself is distinctively
Western in that it assumes a certain amount of unity in philosophical
tradition and in feminist goals; however, the intellectual and cultural
traditions available to Indian feminist thinkers are diverse and complex. Moreover, it is unclear how useful many of these traditions
could be for the empowerment of women. Within the Hindu tradition,
for example, is the ﬁgure of the powerful goddess, but she is a force
for both good and evil. The physicist and ecofeminist activist Vandana Shiva can be credited with the ﬁrst successful development of
a speciﬁcally Indian feminist philosophy; it is based on the traditional
feminine principle of prakriti (the energy that pervades matter), and
respect for this principle.
INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT. Abstract individualism is the term
for the notion that the characteristics, desires, needs, and interests of
human individuals are inherently pre-social, rather than connected to
and constituted by social context. This notion of the ultra-individualist self is a fundamental component of traditional moral philosophy,
classical liberal political theory, and some theories of the philosophy
of mind.
Within traditional moral philosophy, this notion of the self entails
that the task of the moral philosopher is to ﬁnd ways to produce cooperation among such separate individuals. Within the philosophy of
mind, this notion plays out in the way that psychological states are
assumed to be identiﬁably individualist states.
Arguably, the most important manifestation of this notion of the
individualist self is within classical liberal political theory. This theory, in its most basic form, is grounded in the assumption that human
beings are separate individuals with potentially competing desires,
interests, and needs. The aim of the state is to allow for the maximum
fulﬁllment and equal treatment of the interests, desires, and needs of
each individual, in so far as this does not infringe on the fulﬁllment
of these goods for other individuals.
Feminist philosophers have criticized this notion of the self in a
variety of ways. One criticism is that the notion of the self as individualist in this way is conceptually ﬂawed; rather, it is precisely because humans are situated in a social context that they have desires,
interests, and so forth. Another criticism of this notion of the self,

118 •

INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS

one that comes from object relations theory, is that it is a ‘‘male’’
self. Philosophers who make this claim argue that, within patriarchal society, the masculine identity of the male child is achieved
both through recognizing himself as different from his mother, and
also through a necessary separation from her. Thus masculine identity is framed in terms of, and produced through, separation and
individuation. See also CONTRACTARIANISM; LIBERAL FEMINISM; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; POLITICAL
SOLIPSISM; SUBJECTIVITY.
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS (INTERNATIONALE ASSOZIATION VON
PHILOSOPHINNEN). The International Association of Women
Philosophers (IAPh) was founded in 1974 and is located in Berlin,
Germany. According to its mission statement, its goals are ‘‘to promote communication and co-operation among women engaged in
philosophical activities; to stimulate philosophy in the light of feminist criticism; to improve working conditions for women philosophers; to raise public awareness of their discrimination in history and
present times and to promote the study of their work.’’ The association is open to all schools of philosophical thought.
IRIGARAY, LUCE (1932– ). Little biographical information is
available about Luce Irigaray, as she prefers to keep her life private.
Of the major French feminist thinkers, only Luce Irigaray is considered a philosopher. Irigaray claims that sex difference may be the
central philosophical issue of our time. She argues that the questioning and exploration of sex difference will bring the whole Western
philosophical and psychoanalytic tradition into disarray. This is because to explore the question of the relations of sex difference is to
explore the relations between subject and world, and subject and others, for the subject of all intellectual discourse previously has always
been man. Irigaray’s focus in her critical readings of philosophical
texts is to disrupt this masculine discourse, to show how it excludes
women and the feminine, and to introduce new possibilities of a feminine speaking and knowledge.
For Irigaray, women are represented in the patriarchal symbolic
order as the negative ‘‘Other.’’ Thus woman and femininity, because

IRIGARAY, LUCE •

119

they are male deﬁned, have no meaning outside male discourse;
rather, woman is merely a reﬂection of man. Irigaray claims, however, that this reﬂection need not be rejected out of hand, as women
can use it as a way of subverting their male deﬁnition. Irigaray’s
strategy is for women to reﬂect back their own reﬂections—only
magniﬁed—in order to mimic them, and thus show that woman and
the feminine are nothing more than male constructions. Irigaray
holds that the approach to resisting and subverting this order should
not be to produce an alternative concept of woman or the feminine.
To aim to create such a concept, she claims, would not be to escape
male discourse, for its creation would replay the ‘‘sameness’’ of
women that is part of male discourse.
By taking up this position outside male discourse, Irigaray offers
a critique that aims to make visible the effects of this symbolism on
texts and, because it is mistaken as real, on the lives of actual women.
The central effect of this symbolism is to place women outside the
philosophical tradition and thus to generate a male-deﬁned and created knowledge that is not neutral or objective, but gendered. By
taking up this position, she produces readings of texts that have multiple meanings and that are deliberately open to multiple interpretations. In this way both the content of her work and her writing itself
function as a philosophical critique of male philosophical discourse:
they are not structured, linear, and grounded in a reductionist set of
concepts.
In the case of female sexuality, Irigaray points to the way that it
does not have a cultural representation within male discourse, and
thus does not have an existence within this discourse. Irigaray does
not resist this non-existence by offering an alternative conception of
female sexuality—of what this sexuality is in reality—as this would
be to replay the maleness of the concept that sexuality is one—
male—thing.
Irigaray aims, instead, to create a different structure of thought and
speaking: a ‘‘feminine’’ form of expression (écriture féminine) that
operates outside the male symbolic order. This is a language that is
not the language of philosophers, but one which women will speak
‘‘between ourselves.’’ This writing symbolically represents women’s
bodies and sexuality; its speaking position is one of critique, but like
female sexuality, it is no one thing: it is multiple and ﬂuid. Thus, as

120 •

ISLAM

this new language—‘‘written with the body’’—comes from a speciﬁc
position that is consciously not neutral or objective, it has no one
meaning or truth. This disrupts the ‘‘male’’ discourse of the Western
philosophical tradition, which is premised on the existence of an objective truth discoverable by reason alone. It also serves, simultaneously, to make visible the tradition’s exclusion of woman and the
feminine.
Irigaray’s work functions as a critique of Western philosophy, and
this critique itself is a philosophy, although not in the sense that it is
a uniﬁed system or only one system. Instead, it is one of ﬂuidity,
even inconsistency. The creation of this language is not simply a resistance and subversion of the intellectual tradition; it is meaningmaking. It leads to the exploration of new ways of knowledge: female knowledge comes from the (metaphorical) female body.
For Irigaray, the dualism of Western philosophical thought is
grounded in symbolically male logical relations, such as disjunction
and conjunction. Within this discourse these logical relations are
epistemologically necessary, as they identify and individuate the objects of knowledge. In the traditional picture, rationality is one of
these stable forms, identiﬁable through its oppositional relation to
body and desire. This means, for Irigaray, that it will not be enough
to claim that women are rational, as women are symbolically outside
reason. The multiplicity and ﬂuidity of female language forms a different set of relations, one of relationship and the expression of the
ﬂuidity in symbolically male and female relations, such as those between rationality and the body. The function of female language is
not to identify, individuate, and separate in order to achieve knowledge, but to produce understanding and relationship. See also
CANON CRITIQUE; CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY; SCIENCE,
PHILOSOPHY OF; SUBJECTIVITY.
ISLAM. Currently there is feminist work from a variety of disciplines
on reading Islamic texts for their views of women and women’s social status, in particular for what such texts may state or imply about
equality of the sexes. This work is both of historical interest, and of
use to present-day discussions of social reform. In addition, there is
work that demonstrates how interpretations of Islamic texts have
been distorted by being read through the lens of patriarchal ideol-

JUDAISM •

121

ogy. However, despite the role of medieval Islamic philosophers in
transmitting Aristotle to the Latin West, and in developing the debate
of the relation between reason and faith, feminist philosophers have
shown little or no interest in Islamic philosophy itself. See also
CHRISTIANITY; JUDAISM; RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY OF.

–J–
JUANA INÉS, SOR. See CRUZ, SOR JUANA INÉS DE LA.
JUDAISM. Jewish feminism, as a speciﬁc intellectual and political
movement, originated in the 1960s and 1970s. Within Jewish feminist theorizing, there has been a two-pronged struggle against sex
inequalities in Judaism, and against anti-Semitism both within and
outside the feminist movement.
Women were traditionally excluded from full participation in the
Jewish religious community as well as from access to a religious education. The role of women was seen as a supportive role for the
faith of men. Since the inception of Jewish feminism, signiﬁcant advancements have been made in raising the status of women within
Judaism; for example, since the 1970s, women have been able to become rabbis within the Reform, Reconstructionist, and Conservative
movements.
For Jewish feminists working within a theologico-philosophical
context, the question of the exclusion of women from religious
knowledge is not simply a question of access, but a question of the
male bias within the structuring of this knowledge. There is little
doubt that the sacred texts are sexist and exclusionary, and that their
interpretation has traditionally been the province of men. The question has been how this male bias should be addressed. Some Jewish
feminist thinkers have asked whether this exclusion is simply a product of culture and history, which would mean that it is open to challenge and change. Other thinkers have aimed to reinterpret traditional
texts to include women and to revise the tradition through the recovery of texts written by women. A third approach has been to critique
the way the male imagery and language used to describe God in the
sacred texts serve to reinforce existing male-female power structures,

122 •

JUSTICE

and to ask whether this can be resolved through the introduction of
gender-neutral or female imagery. See also CHRISTIANITY;
ISLAM.
JUSTICE. The changes and developments over time in the feminist
philosophical debate on justice reﬂect those of feminist theorizing
in general. For liberal feminism, the dominant theory of the early
stages of the second wave of feminism, justice (along with equality
and liberty) is a central value. The liberal feminist view of justice
is grounded in traditional liberal political theory, which understands
justice as the fair and equitable distribution of resources among separate, equal individuals. For liberal feminists, injustice is the various
ways that sex discrimination plays out in society. Thus justice requires equal opportunity and rights for women as the means to ending this discrimination. Accordingly, feminist philosophizing about
justice in the 1970s and 1980s focused on analyzing the concept of
equality and the legitimacy of means (such as afﬁrmative action) to
achieve this goal.
The current debate on justice, both domestic and international, reﬂects different strands of thought that began in the feminist philosophizing of the 1980s. One major strand is the critique of the
philosophical tradition and thus of traditional theories of political
philosophy. These theories are criticized for their foundation in a
problematic picture of human nature as potentially conﬂicting autonomous and separate individuals operating within the public
sphere. Thus women are dropped from the framework of justice, as
this picture contrasts with the way that women’s traditional roles of
wife and mother conﬁne them to the domestic (private) sphere and
bind them to a network of relationships and attachments within this
sphere.
The other major strand is the development of different analyses of
women’s subordination that go beyond the liberal feminist account.
Underpinning these analyses is the claim that justice will not be
achieved simply through legal and political measures aimed at ending discrimination. There is no agreement about what a just society
will be, or the theoretical approach that will lead to this end; there is
a basic agreement, however, that a just society requires the dismantling of oppressive social hierarchies.

KANT, IMMANUEL •

123

Some feminist philosophers aim to revise traditional theorizing in
order to develop a speciﬁcally feminist theory of justice. Part of this
project includes the analysis of central aspects of justice, such as universality and impartiality, because these ideals have historically
been inaccessible to women. Other feminist philosophers have drawn
on the distinction between the female-oriented ethic of care, and the
male-oriented ethic of justice, to question the value of justice for
feminism. They claim that the ‘‘maleness’’ of justice means that it is
inadequate to include and value women’s thought and experience.
For some philosophers, this then means that a feminist theory of justice is not possible. A slightly less radical version of this view questions whether justice—though an important value—is the only value
for feminism, and thus whether it should be combined in some way
with the perspective of care.
Other feminist thinkers wish to retain the goal of justice, even if
they do not necessarily aim to produce an actual theory of justice.
They aim, instead, to revise the traditional notion of justice as distributive. This position grows out of the recognition that, in the traditional paradigm of the just society, only legal and economic gender
injustice can be changed; oppressive gender ideology will still remain. In this type of revisionist view, injustice can be understood as
institutionalized oppression, and justice as empowerment. With this
revision comes a different notion of who is recognized as a recipient
of justice. Oppression is not just experienced by individuals, but by
individuals because of their membership in a particular group. In this
way, social justice will also be directed toward the achievement of
the liberation goals of oppressed groups. See also INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT; PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.

–K–
KANT, IMMANUEL (1724–1804). German philosopher Immanuel
Kant was born on April 22, 1724, in what was then Königsberg, East
Prussia. Kant started university in Königsberg in 1740 but did not
complete his degree; during the following years he worked as a
teacher of children. Kant’s ﬁrst publication was Thoughts on the True
Estimation of Living Forces (1747). In 1754, he resumed his univer-

124 •

KANT, IMMANUEL

sity studies, and this period also marked the commencement of his
philosophical career.
Kant’s contribution to the discipline of philosophy has afforded
him recognition as one of its pivotal ﬁgures; however, he has been
frequently criticized by feminist philosophers, both for the explicit
sexism in his works and for the masculinist nature of his philosophy.
While there is no doubt that Kant’s views on women are inherently
sexist, the fundamental question asked by feminist philosophical
readers of Kant is what this entails for our understanding of his philosophical theories. Current feminist critique of Kant’s philosophy
does not explore the whole spectrum of his philosophy; rather, it has
tended to focus on Kantian ethics and the Kantian conception of rationality. Of these two, the analysis of Kantian ethics has dominated
discussion among feminist philosophers.
The crucial texts for feminist criticism of Kantian philosophy have
been Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime
(1764) and the works on ethics, in particular The Groundwork of the
Metaphysics of Morals (1785). It is in the former, earlier work that
Kant sets the stage for his views on ethics and rationality that have
been the central target of critique. In this work, Kant espouses a sex
complementarian view of the different moral natures of the sexes.
He holds that men are more naturally inclined to reﬂection and reason, while women are more naturally inclined to the emotional and
the ‘‘beautiful.’’ It is this aesthetic sense, or their ‘‘beautiful understanding,’’ that prompts women to recoil from ugly actions: actions
that are morally wrong. Despite his emphasis on the emotional nature
of women, Kant is not claiming that women are completely bereft of
the capacity to reason; rather, he holds that the development of their
rationality would not serve what he sees as their moral and social
function. For Kant, it is the institution of marriage that deﬁnes women’s function. He views marriage as a joining of the two complementary natures of the sexes: feeling (female) and rationality (male).
Within this relationship, the two sexes then have complementary
roles, with women’s role being to help reﬁne their husbands and inspire them to lead a moral life. Kant held that this moral inﬂuence of
women in the home would, ultimately, aid the civilization of humanity itself.
While Kant’s discussion of the nature and role of women seems

KANT, IMMANUEL •

125

irretrievably sexist, the philosophically troubling question is whether
his account of the different natures of the sexes plays out in his moral
philosophy itself. Feminist philosophers have argued that, on the
most immediate level, the essential structure of Kant’s philosophy,
combined with his ‘‘philosophy of women,’’ leads to an identiﬁcation
of the Kantian moral agent as male and to the explicit exclusion of
women’s capacity for moral agency. Feminist philosophers claim that
this identiﬁcation of morality as male holds, even if it is true (as some
Kantian scholars argue) that interpreters have placed too much emphasis on rationality over the Kantian ‘‘good will’’ in understanding
Kant’s moral philosophy.
In Kant’s account, women, as humans, have the capacity for reason
that is necessary for morality, but women must be educated and encouraged to act based on their ﬁner feelings. There are three main
tensions between Kant’s moral theory and his views of women. First,
women to all intents and purposes, are not truly moral agents. Second, women are essentially being treated purely as a means to an end:
the civilization of society (speciﬁcally men). Finally, women cannot
develop or perfect their rational nature.
For Kant, morality is a matter of duty. Actions that are motivated
by desires or inclinations such as self-interest or sympathy may conform to our duty, but they are not moral acts; instead, we must do our
duty for the sake of doing our duty. It is through our reason that we
can know which actions have moral worth, speciﬁcally through the
application of the universal law of morality: the ‘‘categorical imperative.’’ Kant’s dictum requires that we should only act in such a way
that we can also will that our maxim or principle of action should
become a universal law. At stake in this universalizability of our actions is the recognition that our actions in a particular situation
should be those that would be done by, or accepted by, any rational
being. This concept of moral agency does not necessarily exclude
women, for as human beings, they are rational beings. However, in
Kant’s account of women’s speciﬁc nature, moral agency would not
be particularly relevant or useful for women’s nature or their function.
Inherent in the moral law is the notion of the rational individual as
an autonomous ‘‘maker’’ of the law; this moral decision-making is
independent of custom or subjective inclinations and desires. In tan-

126 •

KANT, IMMANUEL

dem with this, the respect that we show for the rationality in others
requires that we do not restrict the autonomy of others. Feminist philosophers argue that the ideals of independence and autonomy, required for a Kantian moral agent, exclude women, in the sense that
women’s role in marriage is, by deﬁnition, one of support and responsibility for another. For Kant, the human capacity for rationality
does not just mean that we are the makers of the moral law that directs our actions; it also means that we should act in such a way that
we treat humanity (in ourselves or in others) as an end in itself: we
can never use rational beings purely as a means to our ends. Assuming that Kant truly does think that women are rational beings, their
role in marriage contradicts Kant’s claim of the universality of the
categorical imperative of treating humans as ends in themselves.
Moreover, Kantian duties are not just to others; as the makers of the
moral law, and out of respect for our humanity, we also have duties
to ourselves. We must develop any mental and physical capacities,
which will include autonomy, that produce and enhance our rational
decision-making. Indeed, moral maturity is premised on the development of our rational nature. Given the realities of women’s social and
moral role for Kant, it is unlikely that women would have the opportunity for this self-development.
Feminist philosophical analysis of Kantian ethics, however, stretches far beyond this kind of textual and historical criticism. It has
been argued that the problem with Kant’s moral philosophy is not
simply the way it explicitly excludes women, but the fact that many
of the Kantian moral ideals and characteristics are antithetical to the
moral experience of women. This is a dominant strand of criticism
within the subject ﬁeld of feminist ethics, and one that has been
heavily inﬂuenced by Carol Gilligan’s identiﬁcation of a femaleoriented ethic of care.
Gilligan’s psychological studies reach the conclusion that there is
an identiﬁable tendency in women to see emotions, personal relationships, and context as the relevant factors for moral decision-making.
However, there is no room within Kantian moral philosophy to value,
or even recognize, this ‘‘female’’ way of thinking. Kantian moral philosophy values characteristics traditionally identiﬁed as male (such
as detachment and rationality), while devaluing those (such as sympathy and emotionality) traditionally identiﬁed as female. The auton-

LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF •

127

omy necessary for the Kantian moral agent is achieved by freedom
from the emotions, and thus relations with others. Moreover, in order
to apply the categorical imperative, the agent must do so abstractly,
thereby losing sight of the particular histories and contexts involved
in the decision-making.
That is not to say that all Kantian moral ideals are potentially in
tension with feminist ethical and political thought; for example, the
individual and political need for women’s autonomy has been a central issue both for feminist theorizing and for the feminist movement
itself. Given the strength and complexity of the ideal of Kantian autonomy, some philosophers have considered the possibility of reconceiving this ideal for feminist use.
Feminist work on Kantian rationalism, like that on his moral philosophy, can also be divided into the critical and the reconstructive.
Kantian rationalism is problematic in that the role of reason is both
to judge from a vantage point outside the particular perspectives of
those involved and to formalize those perspectives into a uniﬁed
whole; this feat is quite simply not possible for human capabilities.
Moreover, Kant posits an individualistic, unconnected self, failing
to recognize that, in fact, the self is historical, embodied, and framed
by social relations. An example of reconstructive feminist work on
Kantian rationalism is Adrian Piper’s claim that the rational Kantian
self would welcome the cognitive challenges provided by experiences of human difference, and as such, could provide a resource for
dismantling xenophobia.
Work on Kant is in the process of development. For example, there
is a burgeoning interest in areas that are currently a subsidiary focus
of the feminist study of his work, such as political philosophy and
aesthetics. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF; COIGNET, CLARISSE; IMPARTIALITY; SUBJECTIVITY.
KNOWLEDGE. See EPISTEMOLOGY; FOUCAULT, MICHEL.

–L–
LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF. During the 1970s, feminist philosophers turned their attention to the study of language. Compared with

128 •

LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF

other ﬁelds of feminist philosophy, however, feminist philosophy of
language remains a minor area of study.
In the traditional philosophical view, language is value neutral.
As language is considered mainly expressive or descriptive, philosophers aim to study language abstracted from its social settings. In
contrast, feminist philosophers have demonstrated the variety of ways
in which language is not neutral but can reinforce the dominant patriarchal ideology. Moreover, they have emphasized the way that
language is socially located, and thus cannot be studied in isolation
or abstraction. Some feminist philosophers of language question
whether the philosophical topics of study themselves, such as meaning and reference, are indeed as value neutral as traditional philosophy takes them to be. A ﬁnal central difference between the two
approaches is that traditional philosophy of language tends to see the
ﬁeld as one with reasonably clear-cut boundaries, whereas feminist
philosophy of language tends to intersect with other areas of study,
such as literary theory. The main strands of feminist work in the philosophy of language have come from both Anglo-American analytic
philosophy and French feminist philosophy.
Within French feminist philosophy, the most inﬂuential work on
meaning and expression has been that of Luce Irigaray and Hélène
Cixous. Irigaray’s woman’s language ‘‘parler-entre-elles’’ (speak
between ourselves), and Cixous’s ‘‘écriture féminine’’ (feminine
writing)—in which she ‘‘speaks the body’’—are feminist strategies
as well as philosophies of language. Both Irigaray and Cixous see the
meaning of a word as produced by its relation with other, oppositional words: for example, the meaning of the word ‘‘female’’ means
‘‘not male.’’ For Cixous these are hierarchical oppositions that reﬂect
actual social power relations and that are kept in place by force,
whether through intellectual or physical force. Cixous sees that these
masculine forms of thought and discourse are not the only way to
discover and express truths, and she offers an alternative mode of
expression, one that can express the sensations and feelings of the
woman writer. Irigaray also sees that there must be a language different from that of the philosophers and linguists that women will speak
‘‘between ourselves.’’ This language is not grounded in a ﬁxed set of
semantic elements that our task is to analyze, but is rather ﬂuid and
associative, functioning to produce understanding and relationship.

LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF •

129

Early Anglo-American feminist philosophical work in language in
the 1970s showed the inﬂuence of the analytic philosophical approach: philosophical understanding is achieved through language
analysis. Feminist philosophy of language of this period can be characterized by its focus on the analysis of sexist language: for example,
an analysis of the use of ‘‘man’’ as a supposedly neutral term for
‘‘human.’’ Some philosophers argued that, because these two words
cannot be used interchangeably in all social settings, women are implicitly excluded from some social settings. Others drew the more
radical conclusion that terms such as ‘‘man’’ and ‘‘he’’ cannot be
used neutrally at all.
The discussions of the 1970s brought out the dual role language
can play in the oppression of women. First, women are ‘‘marked’’ as
women through the use of sex-speciﬁc words, pronouns, and naming.
This highlights their differences from the ‘‘male norm’’ and, by implication, their apparent inferiority. Second, women are silenced.
They are either excluded as speaking subjects, or their voices are not
recognized as having authority or credibility.
This early work raised one of the central questions within feminist
philosophy of language: is the goal of feminist philosophy simply to
eradicate sexist language and adopt a ‘‘neutral’’ voice, or should
women search for their own feminist ‘‘voice’’ to express their experiences and call for liberation? One provocative variant of the latter
approach is that of Mary Daly, who aims to uncover the ‘‘lost’’
meanings of words in order to transvalue them. Daly produced Websters’ First New Intergalactic Wickedary of the English Language
(1987), written with Jane Caputi. For Daly, this reclaiming of words
is a means to female empowerment. Thus ‘‘spinster’’ becomes a
woman who ‘‘spins,’’ disentangling the knots of patriarchal false
consciousness, and weaving a connected feminist consciousness.
With the growing development of work on sex and gender in the
1980s, feminist philosophers of language have started to examine the
ways that sex and gender are not pre-linguistic ‘‘givens’’; rather they
are created by our discursive practices. To say that ‘‘X is a woman’’
may appear to be a value-neutral description and nothing more. However, in order for this statement to function as a description for us as
listeners, it requires that we have already accepted a background set
of meanings and norms for sex and gender. The notion that there is

130 •

LATIN AMERICA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN

some kind of unitary or ﬁxed meaning of ‘‘woman’’ has been challenged by (among others) Judith Butler, who argues that there is
nothing that is ‘‘woman’’: it is the creation of patriarchal discourse.
Some of the most recent work in Anglo-American feminist philosophy of language expands the issues and areas covered by the analysis of language. Catherine MacKinnon, for example, argues that
pornography is more than just ‘‘words’’: it constructs what women
are and what can be done to them, as well as silencing them. Within
the study of philosophy itself, feminist philosophers have asked
whether women should aim to speak in the neutral language of philosophy, or whether they should adopt different approaches to philosophical methodology, such as personal narratives. While it may
appear that adopting the neutral philosophical voice will give women’s voices authority, it can also be questioned whether this may
come at too high a price: the denial of their particular gender identity.
See also LOGIC; SUBJECTIVITY.
LATIN AMERICA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN. The history of
Latin American thinkers writing about women and women’s rights
includes the French/Peruvian feminist and socialist Flora Tristan
(1803–1844) and Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz (1648–1695) of Mexico. In terms of work that can be categorized as an explicitly feminist
philosophy, the Uruguayan philosopher Carlos Vaz Ferreira wrote a
pro-feminist treatise, Sobre Feminismo (On Feminism), in 1918;
opinions differ as to how important this work was for the suffragist
movement of the time.
The development of feminist philosophy as an academic discipline
in Latin America is still in its early stages. The ﬁrst formal gathering
of feminist philosophers—the International Conference in Feminism
and Philosophy in Latin America—was held in Mexico in 1988.
Latin American feminist philosophers share similar interests with
feminist philosophers from North America and Europe: for example,
in offering analyses of the concept of gender, in exploring the connections between gender and rationality, and in critiquing the canon.
Typically, Latin American feminist philosophers have a stronger interest in political practice than their American and European counterparts.

LESBIAN ETHICS •

131

LE DOEUFF, MICHÈLE. See IMAGINARY, PHILOSOPHICAL;
METHODOLOGY.
LEIBNIZ, GOTTFRIED WILHELM. See CONWAY, ANNE
FINCH; DESCARTES, RENÉ; MASHAM, DAMARIS CUDWORTH; NATURE.
LESBIAN ETHICS. Even though some earlier work could be categorized as lesbian ethics, it was not until the 1980s that lesbian ethics
became an identiﬁable ﬁeld of philosophical study. While lesbian
ethics could not have developed without the analyses and critiques of
traditional ethics provided by feminist ethics, it is an independent
ﬁeld of study. One central reason for this is that lesbian ethics ﬁnds
much of its roots and support in the lesbian community rather than
in academic discourse and institutions. Indeed, the way that this community is conceived, whether as a small community of intimates or
as interconnected with the larger community of those ﬁghting for
justice, dictates how a particular thinker will conceive and practice
lesbian ethics.
Lesbian ethics offers a double challenge to traditional moral philosophy. It goes beyond a critique based on gender to a radical particularist view based on the moral concerns and experiences of
lesbians. The other central way that lesbian ethics challenges traditional moral thought is through a Nietzschean transvaluation of
values.
Sarah Lucia Hoagland, the best-known exponent of a lesbian ethics, rejects the traditional framework of evaluating morality in reference either to ‘‘rightness’’ of character or action. Instead, she
reframes ethical discussion within the context of what will bring
about the development of someone’s integrity and agency. While
freedom of choice is given the moral weight, rather than what is actually chosen, Hoagland can avoid charges of moral arbitrariness. She
holds that lesbian ethics is not a practice of isolated individuals;
rather, moral choice is made within, and for, the lesbian community.
Not all work in lesbian ethics is conﬁned to theory. There is also
work done on ‘‘applied’’ or ‘‘practical’’ ethical issues, such as the
legal issues surrounding lesbian parenting. Journals speciﬁcally devoted to lesbian ethics include Gossip: Journal of Lesbian Feminist

132 •

LESBIAN PHILOSOPHY

Ethics (1986–ca. 1988) and Lesbian Ethics (1984– ), both published
in the United States. See also LESBIAN PHILOSOPHY.
LESBIAN PHILOSOPHY. Lesbian philosophy became an identiﬁable philosophical ﬁeld during the 1980s. On the whole, those philosophers who self-identify as lesbian philosophers, or as writers of
lesbian philosophy, resist any explicit deﬁnitions of the concepts of
‘‘lesbian’’ or ‘‘lesbian philosophy.’’ A central reason for this is that
lesbian philosophy can be seen as part of lesbian culture, which is no
one thing. The knowledge generated by lesbian culture may simply
be about that culture—for example, the examination of the meaning
of the concept of lesbian, or of contested behaviors such as sadomasochism. At other times, it may be knowledge that is relevant for feminist philosophizing more generally, such as the functioning of lesbian
sexuality within the wider discussion of male—that is to say oppressive—constructions of female sexuality.
Some of the projects of lesbian philosophy parallel those of the
wider feminist philosophical project in the questions they pose to traditional philosophical thought. Lesbianism itself presses on the
framework of traditional dualist categories of men-women and malefemale sexuality; and the construction of a history of lesbian thought
offers a critique of male-biased histories of the philosophical tradition. Thus far the central and most fully formulated project of lesbian
philosophy has been the development of a lesbian ethics, one that is
fruitful for the lesbian community and also functions as a challenge
to the dominant tradition of moral philosophy. Among the journals
and newsletters published in the United States on lesbian philosophy
is the Society for Lesbian and Gay Philosophy Newsletter (1988– ).
LIBERAL FEMINISM. Liberal feminism was the earliest form of
feminist theory and it has often, mistakenly, been identiﬁed with
feminist theory itself. As with all contemporary feminist theories, a
variety of positions can be called liberal feminism; however, they
share a common foundation in the fundamental tenets and ideals of
classical liberal theory: autonomy, equality, and self-fulﬁllment.
Central to liberal theory is a normative dualist picture of human nature in which the mental, understood as the distinctive human capacity for rationality, is valued over the physical. This capacity is viewed

LIBERAL FEMINISM •

133

as the means either to individual self-fulﬁllment, or to individual autonomy. Moreover, the equal capacity for rationality of all human
beings entails their fundamental equality.
Given that, historically, women were not considered fully rational,
or to share the same type of capacity as men, the strategy for eighteenth- and nineteenth-century feminist philosophers was to demonstrate women’s equal capacity for rationality. Thus a central task for
these philosophers was to explain away any apparent evidence to the
contrary. The liberal feminist claim that the capacity for rationality
of both sexes is equal need not commit its proponents to the claim
that this capacity is the same; until women are no longer subject to
external socialization, it remains unproved.
The dualist picture of human nature has political signiﬁcance for
feminists because it underpins the claim that physical differences,
and thus the sex of an individual, are socially unimportant. Liberal
feminists argue that physical differences should not affect rights or
opportunity, and they identify sex discrimination—discrimination
based on physical differences—as the barrier to female equality.
In order to achieve equality, liberal feminists hold that all humans
need the maximum possible amount of liberty. Liberal feminists
argue that, without this, there cannot be a just distribution of social
goods based on merit; instead, there will be an unjust distribution that
will privilege men: the already socially advantaged group. Typically,
liberal feminists have aimed to secure equality through reforms in
the public sphere, especially in the workplace. Feminist philosophical
work in this area has focused on the examination of the pivotal ideals
of justice and equality as well as on analyses of particular political
strategies to attain these ideals, such as afﬁrmative action.
While the liberal feminist movement is responsible for many important legal and social reforms in the West, it has been criticized as
a movement just for white, middle-class, Western women that ignores
the concerns and needs of minorities and non-Western women. In addition, the goal of liberal feminism is reform—not revision—of the
system in order to achieve the inclusion of women and their opportunity for self-fulﬁllment within that system. Its critics claim that this
means liberal feminist analysis can only focus on the more superﬁcial
causes of the oppression of women at the expense of an analysis of
deeper and less visible causes, such as economic institutions. With-

134 •

LOCKE, JOHN

out this deeper level of analysis, the different barriers to equality
faced by women of color will remain hidden.
Feminist philosophical criticisms of liberal feminism have focused
on the problematic concepts of the liberal tradition that are still present in the liberal feminist analysis, as well as on the way that these
concepts affect its adequacy as a political philosophy. A central
feminist philosophical criticism of the dualist liberal picture of
human nature—our rational nature—is of its underlying male bias.
Not only have women been traditionally associated with the body,
and thus devalued, but the conceptual distinction between body and
mind reﬂects the experiences of men who, for example, were not
responsible for taking care of the physical needs of children. This
separation of the mental from the physical is interconnected with the
liberal view that our needs and desires are not the products of a social
and material context. In this view, we are independent of others.
Moreover, the needs and desires of others may conﬂict with our own.
This notion of a solitary, individualistic self—a fundamentally egoistic self—has been criticized by feminist philosophers for being inconsistent with the experience and biology of women. Thus this
concept of an individualistic self is not politically useful for the feminist enterprise. For some feminist philosophers, this is a crucial problem that liberal feminism must overcome in order to become an
adequate political philosophy. See also POLITICAL SOLIPSISM;
REASON; SUBJECTIVITY.
LOCKE, JOHN. See ASTELL, MARY; MASHAM, DAMARIS
CUDWORTH.
LOGIC. Compared with other ﬁelds of feminist philosophy, there has
been little feminist work on logic, but logic has been seen as a useful
tool for feminist philosophy. Logic can be used to expose the errors
of sexist arguments and to cut through these arguments to uncover
the unspoken propositions that underlie them. However, some feminist philosophers hold that even logic must be held up to scrutiny for
its sexist bias, similar to the way that language has been examined
for bias in feminist philosophy of language. Given logic’s central
status within philosophy, this is a controversial project. In the standard account, logic is the tool that can show the structure of language

LOGIC •

135

and the structure of truths, free of the difﬁculties and ambiguities of
natural language; it is an abstraction, absent of bias and value free.
Some feminist philosophers have criticized logic for the way it
frames reason as masculine. Luce Irigaray, for example, sees the
fundamental logical principles of the principle of non-contradiction
and the principle of identity as symbolically male. Both principles
assume the possibility that things are stable forms and thus can be
distinguished one from another. For Irigaray, stable forms, individuation, and identity are symbolically phallic.
Other feminist philosophers have argued that different logics are
used for different purposes: for example, for creating social consensus or for enforcing the consistency of ideas. Support for this latter
view comes from the history of logic, most notably in the work of
Andrea Nye, who traces the history of different logical theories from
Ancient Greece to Gottlob Frege. She holds that there is no one
logic, but different logics with different motivations and uses.
One of the examples Nye gives to illustrate her thesis is the political use made of the logic of medieval philosopher Peter Abelard, a
use that was not inconsistent with the way Abelard viewed his logic:
as the weapon of an intellectual battleground, with logical arguments
forcefully and rightfully establishing one’s authority. This was a period in which the Catholic Church wished both to consolidate its political power and to enforce and reinforce belief among its followers.
One of the ways it did this was by rationalizing the conﬂicting elements of canon law through the use of Abelard’s logical principles,
producing a uniﬁed body of law applicable across nations. In this
way, logic became pressed into the service of the church’s suppression of dissent and heresy. The masculine nature of this enterprise
(and also the other enterprises within the history of logic), and its
accompanying exclusion or dismissal of women, is covert and complex. Women are excluded from Abelard’s logic because it is the
logic of the communications of the medieval male world. Training
in Abelard’s competitive logic functioned as a preparation for men
ambitious to rise in the growing bureaucracy and expanding hierarchy of the church; this career was closed to women.
If Nye is correct, then it must be recognized that, despite the tradition that logic is an independent abstraction, it is a form of human
communication. As such, logic is rooted in a socio-cultural context;

136 •

LUGONES, MARIA

it is not timeless, nor is it free of the motivations and biases of its
speakers. See also ANALYTIC FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY; VALUE
NEUTRALITY.
LUGONES, MARIA. See MIND, PHILOSOPHY OF.

–M–
MACAULAY, CATHARINE (CATHARINE SAWBRIDGE MACAULAY-GRAHAM) (1731–1791). During her lifetime, the English writer and philosopher Catharine Macaulay was celebrated as
a public intellectual and political radical. The extent of her public
recognition can be seen in the fact that her ideas and work were an
acknowledged inﬂuence on some of the leaders of the American Revolution. Although she wrote proliﬁcally on history and politics, including an eight-volume republican history of the seventeenth
century, she wrote only one work of feminist philosophy: Letters on
Education with Observations on Religious and Metaphysical Subjects (1790). In this work, Macaulay argues that the human mind is
sexless, and thus that women should receive the same education as
men. She further argues that the social equality of women is not just
essential for their personal development but is a necessary component for a morally excellent society.
MAKIN, BATHSUA PELL (ﬂ. 1673). The erudition of English philosopher Bathsua Pell Makin is clear from the fact that she was a
tutor to Princess Elizabeth at the court of Charles I, a position that
usually would have been reserved for a male tutor. It is the argumentative strategy for the education of women employed by Makin in
her 1673 work An Essay to Revive the Antient Education of Gentlewomen, In Religion, Manners, Arts & Tongues that makes her philosophy of historical interest. Makin does not simply argue for women’s
education; she also critically examines her own proposal for women’s education and provides replies to potential objections. While the
central thrust of Makin’s Essay is an argument for the better education of women and the beneﬁts this will bring them, it is important to
note that Makin’s argument is framed within the general social utility

MARRIAGE •

137

of women’s education. She states that educated women will be in a
better position to help their husbands and educate their children,
while a general improvement in the education of women will beneﬁt
the country as a whole. See also SCHURMAN, ANNA MARIA
VAN.
MALESTREAM. The term malestream, which combines ‘‘male’’ and
‘‘mainstream,’’ has been widely adopted by some feminist philosophers to describe traditional or mainstream philosophy. The ﬁrst use
of the term is attributed to Mary O’ Brien in her 1981 work The Politics of Reproduction.
MAN. See ESSENTIALISM; GENDER; SEX.
MARRIAGE. Historically, marriage has been a central issue in discussions of women’s equality, and it remains an important component
of contemporary feminist calls for liberation. Feminist philosophers
have critiqued the institution of marriage because it reinforces the
domination of women by men, either through the domination of one
individual by another, or through the way that a patriarchal society
has set the social and economic conditions of marriage in ways that
beneﬁt men.
Analysis of the marriage contract, and its differences from other
contracts, is a central focus for feminist philosophers. They argue
that, unlike other contracts, there is no formal setting out of the terms
of the arrangement, nor can the terms be changed according to the
wishes of the contractors; rather, the terms are deﬁned by the state.
Another type of critique of marriage as a contractual relation—
inﬂuenced by object relations theory—points to the concept of the
contract itself, made between two equal consenting individuals, as
one that comes out of a historically masculine way of thinking about
human relations: it reﬂects men’s social experiences and privileges.
Feminist philosophical work on marriage has produced a variety
of analyses of the oppression of marriage for women; these analyses
typically depend on the particular kind of feminist theory held by the
author. Liberal feminists tend to focus on strategies that will give
women the opportunity to have marriage and motherhood as well as
a career. Marxist feminists usually hold that marriage has similari-

138 •

MARXIST FEMINISM

ties to prostitution: women sell their person for economic survival.
Radical feminists typically focus on the actual relation between the
sexes within the institution of marriage; for example, they point to
the way that women are pushed into marriage through the patriarchal
ideology of marriage as the fulﬁllment of the needs of women.
Discussions of marriage are of interest to feminist philosophers,
not just because of the centrality of these discussions in feminist arguments for women’s liberation, but also because of their presence
in philosophical work in the canon. For many canonical philosophers, most notably Immanuel Kant and Jean-Jacques Rousseau,
the traditional institution of marriage—with women in the subordinate role—was a component of the development of men as moral
agents and political citizens. See also FAMILY; GOLDMAN,
EMMA; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
MARXIST FEMINISM. The identiﬁcation of the Marxist feminist position is complicated by the existence of competing interpretations of
classical Marxist theory and by changes in Marxist thought over the
decades. Moreover, for many feminist theorists, including selfdeﬁned Marxist and socialist feminists, there is no precise boundary
between Marxist and socialist feminism. The main distinction between the two is that Marxist feminists see class under capitalism as
the primary lens for analysis of the situation of women, while socialist feminists analyze the situation of women under the interconnected
systems of both capitalism and patriarchy. For Marxist feminists,
the subordination of women to men is not a primary system of oppression; it is the historical product of a particular form of capitalism. Thus Marxist feminists do not see any fundamental opposition
in the relations between men and women; rather, they hold that the
dismantling of capitalism will bring about the end of patriarchy. On
the whole, Marxist feminism has had the most support in the United
Kingdom and Italy.
The intellectual foundations of the Marxist feminist analysis of
women’s subordination lie in Friedrich Engels’s 1884 work The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State, in which he outlines what is often seen as the classic Marxist position on what he
called ‘‘the woman question.’’ Engels argues that the historical
source of the subordination of women is the sexual division of labor,

MARXIST FEMINISM •

139

which he sees as a constant in every society. The division between
women’s work of the domestic sphere and men’s work of production
does not, however, automatically lead to the subordination of women;
rather, this will depend on the particular mode of production within
a given society. According to Engels, the advent of the development
of agriculture—and thus the development of the male sphere of production—led to a change in the value placed on women’s traditional
domestic labor and the rise of men’s economic power over women.
This change in the situation of women coincided with the origins of
class society, as this expansion in production led to the economically
beneﬁcial use of slaves. Engels identiﬁes an accompanying change
in the relations between men and women. Rather than staying as a
natural pairing between equals, marriage became an economic institution with the sole purposes of ensuring a man’s control over property and procuring his future heirs. Thus marriage is the primary
institution of women’s subordination, as it makes women economically dependent on men.
While Engels’s picture of the origins of women’s situation has a
great deal of explanatory power, it has been the subject of critique
by contemporary feminist theorists. A central criticism is that it is not
evident, beyond Engels’s possibly inaccurate account of its historical
origins, why women are the lower-paid workers as well as the service
workers for the labor force. Moreover, contemporary feminist philosophers have questioned why the sexual division of labor remains.
Most Western women are in the workforce but still tend to have the
primary responsibility for labor in the home. One of the tasks for
contemporary Marxist feminists, therefore, has been to offer an analysis of this continuation of the sexual division of labor, an analysis
of how this division of labor ultimately beneﬁts capital.
For Marxist feminists, the full liberation of women will occur only
with the dismantling of capitalism, but temporary solutions have
been offered for the particular harms caused by the form of the labor
division under modern capitalism. Solutions typical of the 1960s and
1970s are the socialization of housework and wages for housework.
More recently, Marxist feminists have turned their attention to the
way that the labor division plays out in the workplace; for example,
women earn less than men and tend to be directed toward work that
is ‘‘women’s work’’: caring and service work. One popular solution

140 •

MASCULINITY

for this is a call for the introduction of a system of comparable worth
among jobs.
For non-Marxist feminist theorists, Marxist feminism fails because
it offers a gender-neutral analysis of women’s oppression: it sees
capitalism as the ultimate source of the oppression of women. Thus,
for example, it cannot explain why particular forms of oppression,
such as domestic violence, are typically only the experience of
women; nor, ultimately, can it allow for the recognition that women’s
oppression serves in a variety of ways, not just economically, to beneﬁt men.
In response to these criticisms, some Marxist feminists have aimed
to produce what Heidi Hartmann has termed a ‘‘marriage’’ between
feminism and Marxism: an analysis that does not give priority to either form of oppression but examines the ways in which these separate systems of oppression reinforce each other. Other theorists have
argued that the two systems are not analytically independent in this
way. These theorists claim that patriarchal ideology is not the exclusive site for the production of women’s oppression, and thus that
women’s oppression cannot be analyzed independently of the economic relations of capitalism. The development of these sorts of revisionist approaches to Marxist feminist theorizing has meant that it is
not always possible to make any clear distinction between Marxist
feminism and socialist feminism. See also DUAL SYSTEMS
THEORY.
MASCULINITY. Masculinity is understood as the ideal of the appropriate gender behaviors, traits, and roles for men. Thus men are expected, for example, to act in an assertive manner, to be rational, and
to be the primary wage earner. Philosophical work on masculinity is
usually done by men and typically focuses on the ways that men, like
women, are trapped by gender expectations. However, for feminist
philosophers, similarities between the restrictions caused by the constructs of femininity and masculinity stop here. Within patriarchal
society, masculinity is seen as the norm and is constructed against
a negative, inferior ‘‘Other’’: femininity. Thus both masculinity and
femininity serve to oppress women, whereas men are only subject to
the ideology of masculinity. See also BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE.

MATERNAL •

141

MASHAM, DAMARIS CUDWORTH (1659–1708). Damaris Cudworth was the daughter of a well-known Cambridge Platonist; she
married Sir Francis Masham in 1685. While her philosophy shows
her father’s inﬂuence, she was also a follower of the seventeenthcentury English philosopher John Locke. Her two philosophical
works are A Discourse Concerning the Love of God (1696) and Occasional Thoughts in Reference to a Virtuous or Christian Life
(1705). Her correspondence on philosophical issues with both John
Locke and German philosopher Gottfried Leibniz has also been preserved.
Within Masham’s philosophical works, several early feminist arguments can be found on the status of women. Like many other feminist philosophers of this period, Masham decries the lack of formal
education for women. In Masham’s case, this critique is ﬁltered
through her Christian beliefs. She holds that women have the same
rationality as men, but she argues that without a development of their
reason, women will lack the knowledge necessary both for proper
faith and to answer criticisms of Christianity. Masham explicitly
blames men for women’s underdevelopment of their reason, claiming
that this is due to the fact that men view women as little more than
the bearers of a dowry. Masham also offers an early critique of the
double standard for the sexual behavior of men and women; she argues that making chastity the sole measure of women’s virtue restricts their moral life, as she holds that chastity is just one of the
many virtues of a Christian life.
MATERNAL (MATERNALIST) ETHICS (MATERNAL THINKING). Maternal ethics can be either a feminine ethics, a feminist
ethics, or have aspects of both types of ethics. Essentially it employs
a mother and child relationship in some way as a basis for the development of a new ethical approach. For many theorists, ‘‘mother’’
means a ‘‘mothering person,’’ someone who can be either male or
female.
Virginia Held argues that traditional moral theories were developed for the public realm: to provide guidelines for contractual relations between equal strangers. This, however, is only part of the
picture of the relations and activities of our moral world. Held argues
that there is also the need for moral theory that begins from the pri-

142 •

MEN

vate world, with the mothering person-child relationship as a paradigm for ethical relations.
Another major proponent of maternal ethics, Sara Ruddick, argues
for a notion of maternal practice grounded in the mothering experience of women (although she holds that both sexes can mother). Maternal thinking is not simply emotional response; rather, the goals of
maternal practice are the preservation, growth, and social acceptability of children. The speciﬁc traits needed to achieve these goals are
then the virtues of that practice. Ruddick’s notion of maternal practice reframes the notion of good in terms of knowledge and perception, while traditional moral philosophy narrowly frames good in
terms of choice and action. Ruddick draws connections between maternal thinking and opposition to militarism. This is not to say that
all women oppose war, or that women are ‘‘naturally’’ paciﬁsts, but
that the maternal task is fundamentally in conﬂict with the activity of
war.
While maternal ethics is, strictly speaking, a development of contemporary feminist philosophy, it is possible to ﬁnd elements of this
type of ethical thinking in much earlier thought: for example, in the
work of Christine de Pizan. Pizan’s maternalist ethic surfaces
within her political philosophy, speciﬁcally in her account of the
relationship of subjects to their sovereign. For Pizan, the motherchild ethical relation provides the paradigm for the political obligations of subjects and rulers. Like the child, the political subject has a
duty to obey; like the mother, the sovereign is responsible for the
moral and material well-being of the subject. Moreover, just as the
child learns from the mother, subjects learn by example from the sovereign. Thus, in order for their subjects to develop a good character,
sovereigns must themselves be of good character. See also BLACK
FEMINIST ETHICS; CULTURAL FEMINISM; CARE, ETHICS
OF.
MEN. See ESSENTIALISM; GENDER; SEX.
METAPHYSICS. There has been little discussion of metaphysics by
feminist philosophers. Those who have done work on metaphysics
have tended to remain critical of the subject; indeed, some feminist
philosophers have claimed that metaphysics, due to the untenability

METAPHYSICS •

143

of its very subject matter, should be rejected completely. As the philosophical study of reality, metaphysics is both an analysis of the nature of reality and a search for what is real; it raises ontological
questions of the nature of being or existence. The foundational requirement of this metaphysical project is the assumption that both
reality and being are ﬁxed. In contrast, feminist philosophy is fundamentally a political philosophy for social change. Its fundamental
requirement is the call for the change of the oppressive reality of
women’s existence and the rejection of spurious theories about the
nature of women’s being.
Feminist critique of metaphysics began in the 1980s and is primarily a historical critique. Both the questions of the traditional metaphysical project and the theories used to explain the nature of reality
and being are seen to be irretrievably male biased, as they are based
on experiences and ways of thinking that have been associated with
men. A central problem is the requirement of traditional metaphysics
for us to take a value-neutral, objective position from which to understand reality, a position outside the particular perspective of our
situated self. This ideal of intellectual detachment does not reﬂect the
material and social reality of women, who have historically been tied
to the concrete demands of the domestic sphere.
The ideal is also grounded in the rejection of the feminine. The
transcendence of the situated self and the material world is simultaneously transcendence of those things that have been metaphorically
associated with the feminine. This dualist nature of reality, a reality
constructed through separation and exclusion, has been a particular
target for feminist philosophy for the way it provides conceptual legitimacy for the marginalization, and subsequent subordination, of
particular groups.
The ontological question of the nature of human being has also
been the subject of criticism for its male bias. This search is not gender neutral; it is a search for the nature of male being. One type of
approach to this problem, offered by feminist philosophers, has been
a reformist approach that aims to revise the concept of human being
to include what can be identiﬁed as women’s ways of being and perception. A more radical approach is to argue that even what it is to
be male and female are constructs of a male reality. This makes the

144 •

METHODOLOGY

question of human being, and thus metaphysics more generally, an
empty inquiry.
For some feminist philosophers this history of male bias need not
entail the complete rejection of metaphysical study; rather, the perspectives and experiences of women can be used to press upon and
revise traditional notions of reality and being. However, beyond a potential revision of dualist thinking, it has not been clear how gender
plays out in having a perspective on reality. For example, is there
only one perspective or multiple perspectives for each gender? Even
if this notion of a gendered perspective were clear, there remains the
need to establish whether this has an effect on our concepts of reality.
It has also been argued that the task of a feminist metaphysics is
not to identify a gendered perspective but to examine the ways in
which our views about reality inform or maintain oppression: there
is a sense in which reality is political. Thus a speciﬁcally feminist
metaphysics is a possibility, as an examination of the nature of reality
and being is part of the feminist political project. See also SUBJECTIVITY.
METHODOLOGY. Feminist critics have analyzed the ways in which
philosophical methodology reﬂects, or may even reinforce, the dominant ideology. Janice Moulton, for example, has argued that aggression, a trait that has a different social meaning and value for men and
women, has been incorporated into the standard paradigm of philosophical technique: the adversary method. In essence this method
frames different philosophical viewpoints and arguments as being in
opposition or competition. The aim is to defeat opponents’ arguments through, among other things, challenging their foundational
assumptions, exposing their inconsistencies, searching for argumentative fallacies, and showing how their premises lead to unintended
conclusions that are untenable.
This linking of aggression with philosophical ability serves to exclude women from philosophy, as it requires behavior that is not culturally constructed as feminine. Moreover, an approach that focuses
solely on defeat of an opponent also serves to limit philosophy itself;
for example, knowledge cannot be produced through dialogue, while
subject matter that does not lend itself easily to an adversarial approach is ignored. Furthermore, the history of philosophy becomes

MILL, JOHN STUART •

145

both distorted and a limited resource, as it is read merely as a series
of triumphs or failures among competing views. Some feminist philosophers have considered the possibility of developing new methods, such as narrative techniques; new ways of approaching the
history of philosophy are also being developed, such as Michèle Le
Doeuff’s philosophical imaginary.
Some feminist philosophers have asked whether feminist philosophy, given its connections to the feminist movement, requires philosophical methods of its own that have a political or ethical dimension.
They point to the tension between standard philosophical methods,
which have as their goals universal and objective truths, and the fact
that the feminist movement relies on consciousness raising—a collective examination of personal experience—as a method of gaining
knowledge for political action. See also ANALYTIC FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHY.
MILL, HARRIET TAYLOR. See TAYLOR MILL, HARRIET.
MILL, JOHN STUART (1806–1873). English philosopher John Stuart Mill was the son of philosopher and social reformer James Mill
(1773–1836). John Stuart Mill’s childhood education and achievements are famous; he was taught Greek when he was three and logic
when he was twelve. In 1823, he started work for the East India Company and after his retirement was a member of Parliament for Westminster (1865–1868). During his period in politics, he worked
actively to gain the vote for women. In 1851, he married Harriet
Taylor, with whom he had had an intellectual and emotional relationship since they ﬁrst met in 1830. Mill’s major published works
are On Liberty (1859), Utilitarianism (1861), and The Subjection of
Women (1869). His Autobiography was published posthumously in
1873.
The Subjection of Women is viewed as a signiﬁcant work of early
feminist philosophy, in particular because it provided a theoretical
grounding for the feminist activism of that period, and many of the
issues raised by Mill continue to be part of feminist debate. Furthermore, The Subjection is unique in that it is the only major feminist
work written by a male philosopher from the Western canon. Despite
Mill’s arguments in this work about the relation of overall happiness

146 •

MILL, JOHN STUART

to the liberation of women, feminist philosophers have not considered Mill’s feminism to be explicitly grounded in his Utilitarian
thought.
The early roots of Mill’s feminist philosophical thought can be
found in his essay on divorce written for Harriet Taylor in 1831 or
1832. Although Mill focuses on the question of divorce in this early
essay, he also says that the question of marriage cannot be considered without understanding how it affects women. Mill argues that
what marriage ought to be, and which laws should cover marriage
(and thus divorce), could only be clariﬁed when it has been established whether it is a relationship between two equals or not. Mill
makes his views plain on this matter: there is no natural inequality
between the sexes. Mill develops his analysis of the connection between equality and marriage in The Subjection of Women and it is a
core theme throughout the work.
In the ﬁrst chapter of The Subjection, Mill argues that the legal
inequality of women has no basis in the overall happiness of society;
rather it is a vestige of historical relations between the sexes that were
based solely on men’s physical power over women. Mill then replies
to potential objections to the equality of women. He focuses, in particular, on the claim that it is a fact of nature that women are not
equal to men. He holds instead that we cannot know the true nature
of the sexes; what appears to be the nature of women is the result of
repressive socialization. This issue of the nature of women, and the
role of gender socialization, is one that has been central for modern
feminist philosophy, especially in the 1970s and 1980s.
In chapter two of The Subjection, Mill discusses the repressive
state of marriage for women generated by the laws of England. However, he does not wish to dissolve the institution and he posits his
own ideal of marriage: a voluntary companionate relationship between two equals. Even though Mill argues for the legal equality of
women—for example, in property ownership—he does not promote
the desirability of employment for married women. Instead he sees
the customary sexual division of labor, with married women in a
domestic role, as the best for both women and society.
In chapter three, Mill tackles objections to women being given the
vote or holding political ofﬁce that are based on sex stereotyping.
Mill repeats his claim from the ﬁrst chapter that, because women

MIND, PHILOSOPHY OF •

147

have been artiﬁcially socialized, it is impossible to know their true
nature. The remainder of this chapter has troubled modern feminist
philosophers, as Mill appears to accept certain sex stereotypes in his
discussion of whether women should take part in public life; he
makes generalizations about women’s tendencies toward the practical and their capacity for intuitive thinking.
In the ﬁnal chapter, Mill argues that the civic and legal equality of
women will bring beneﬁts to society in general, not just to women:
ﬁrst, because individuals of both sexes can only develop morally if
they are raised in a society grounded in justice and equality; second,
because more people will then be available to contribute to society.
Here Mill is thinking of the potential moral contributions of women
to society through their role as the educator of the character of their
children.
There is some ambivalence on the part of feminist scholars toward
the actual philosophical content of The Subjection. Mill’s discussion
of equality and respect in marriage has sometimes been seen as a
potential model for intimate relationships. However, Mill is often
criticized for not challenging the traditional sexual division of labor.
Mill speciﬁcally states in chapter two of The Subjection that, when
women marry, they choose a domestic life in the same way a man
chooses a profession. Feminist philosophers argue that, without the
possibility of economic equality (the ability to earn an income),
women cannot achieve true equality. If women have the primary responsibility for the family, moreover, then they have little opportunity for individual growth and fulﬁllment.
In light of these difﬁculties, some feminist philosophers have
aimed to uncover the causes, philosophical or psychological, of
Mill’s apparent inability to move beyond the status quo. Mill’s empiricism, for example, may have meant that he did not advocate radical change in the situation of women, as he could only base his
arguments on the empirical facts of the lives of Victorian women.
See also FIRST WAVE FEMINISM; HUMAN NATURE; LIBERAL
FEMINISM.
MIND, PHILOSOPHY OF. Feminist philosophical examination of
the traditional questions in the philosophy of mind started in the
1980s. As with much of feminist work in the traditional areas of ana-

148 •

MIND, PHILOSOPHY OF

lytic philosophy, this examination has taken the form of both critique
of this area and attempts at its revision for the feminist philosophical
project.
In the case of critique, feminist philosophers have challenged both
the conceptual framework of the philosophy of mind as well as some
of the speciﬁc issues within the philosophy of mind. The central
problem for feminist philosophers is that the subject area of the philosophy of mind is grounded in the usually normative dualism of
mind/body. The superior disjunct of mind has historically been associated with men; the inferior disjunct has been associated with
women, because of their cultural and biological ties to their bodies.
Even if mind and body are not explicitly associated with the two
sexes in traditional philosophical texts, the two entities are metaphorically gendered: for example, the mind needs to control an unruly
body.
Because of this central problem, feminist critique of the philosophy of mind usually focuses on questioning the coherence of the conceptual separation of mind/body and on challenging the normativity
of this split by revaluing elements, such as emotion, that are associated with the feminine. This type of critique has meant that even the
contemporary work in mainstream philosophy to dismantle or solve
what is known as the mind/body problem, or to analyze speciﬁc
‘‘mental’’ states, can be seen as suspect; this is because this mainstream work assumes some version of the conceptual divide between
mind and body as a basis for its investigations. For these reasons,
feminist philosophers have even criticized the name of the ﬁeld itself,
preferring the alternative name for the ﬁeld: philosophy of psychology.
Of the speciﬁc questions within the traditional ﬁeld of the philosophy of mind, the most important for feminist philosophers has been
the problem of personal identity. If, for example, the personality and
memories of a person were to be transferred to the body of another,
the puzzle is then whether they are the same individual. In the standard account, the deﬁning feature of the self and its survival is its
continuous psychological identity over time. Thus, in this particular
case, it is plausible to claim that they are the same person. This notion of the self is then, by deﬁnition, a purely psychological entity
that is independent of both the body and social relations—a notion

MORAL AGENCY •

149

that ultimately makes these elements of human life irrelevant to the
identity of the individual.
Feminist philosophers have argued that this notion of the self is
not coherent; rather, the self must be understood as embodied and
embedded. Any proposed notion of the self cannot be understood
separately from its original formation within a network of social relations, such as parent-child relations. Moreover, these social relations
construct gender identity, yet the standard account of the self requires
a gender-neutral individual.
Feminist philosophical revision of the ﬁeld of the philosophy of
mind has also focused mainly on the question of personal identity;
this revision is explicitly political in nature and has served to expand
the range of issues in the ﬁeld. Feminist philosophers have examined
psychological states for their political interest: for example, whether
anger can be a political emotion that produces knowledge and a desire for social change. Others have considered the question of what
is the ‘‘I’’ of personal identity, and how—if women are not born but
made—does the ‘‘I’’ come into existence.
Maria Lugones has pressed on the notion of the ‘‘I’’ as a ﬁxed or
distinguishable identity through her examination of the way that a
person of a particular race has different identities, each constructed
by the particular ‘‘worlds’’ the person inhabits. We can gain knowledge of others, and of the way that we are seen by them, through
‘‘traveling’’ to the worlds of others. This account is politically signiﬁcant; it suggests a way of coming to understand difference, one
that does not simply reﬂect the standpoint of the dominant group’s
perception of the difference of marginalized groups. See also INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT; PSYCHOANALYTIC FEMINISM;
SUBJECTIVITY.
MODERN RATIONALISM. See AUSTRALIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN; DESCARTES, RENÉ.
MORAL AGENCY. For philosophers, the standard concept of the
moral agent is a self who is the maker of choices about the right acts
to perform. Within the Western philosophical tradition, the (ideal)
moral agent is conceived of as an individualistic being, one who is
capable of making rational moral judgments and acting on them. This

150 •

MORAL AGENCY

individual is presumed to be free, and therefore responsible for those
actions and choices. This view of the moral agent as autonomous
and free of particular historical and social circumstances was given
its most explicit formulation in the moral philosophy of Immanuel
Kant. Given that women’s agency is an essential component of their
liberation, an analysis of moral agency has been an important part of
feminist philosophy. Furthermore, female moral agency has traditionally been associated with the ‘‘good woman’’: a more limited picture of autonomy and range of choices for action.
Feminist philosophers have found two main problems with the traditional concept of moral agency. First, the standard framing of the
concept assumes a problematic picture of the moral agent as an atomistic or abstract individual, one who judges from an impartial standpoint. It is this sort of picture that feminist philosophers see as
evidence of the male bias in canonical philosophy. Second, questions need to be asked about the freedom of female moral agents.
Feminist philosophers claim that the norms of feminine moral behavior serve to subordinate women by restricting their freedom for moral
action and choice, whether through external pressures, or through internalization of these norms.
Some feminist philosophers have offered alternative theories of
moral agency; these theories can be roughly categorized as carebased theories and oppositional theories. While there is no unitary
theory of care-based moral agency, all care-based theories frame the
self as relational. Moral choice is then reconceived within a framework that recognizes the existence of relationships and interdependencies and emphasizes the skills and capacities needed to act and
judge within this framework. There is disagreement among feminist
philosophers over whether this type of theory, as with all theories of
the ethics of care, is subject to the criticism that it reinforces stereotypical notions of feminine self-sacriﬁce. Oppositional accounts of
moral agency have their foundations in either postmodernist or
Marxist thought. The thrust of both these types of accounts, in essence, is to critique the ways in which women are constructed by social forces; this means that the standard notion of agency, because it
is based on a concept of an identiﬁable self, is dissolved. The possible problem with these accounts is that, with their emphasis on the

MOTHERHOOD •

151

ways that the self is socially constructed, the political potential for
female moral agency may become lost. See also SUBJECTIVITY.
MORAL EPISTEMOLOGY. See EPISTEMOLOGY, MORAL.
MORAL PHILOSOPHY. See ANIMAL ETHICS; BIOETHICS;
BLACK FEMINIST ETHICS; CARE, ETHICS OF; ECOFEMINISM; EPISTEMOLOGY, MORAL; FEMININE ETHICS; FEMINIST ETHICS; LESBIAN ETHICS; MATERNAL ETHICS.
MOTHERHOOD. While the capacity to bear children is a fact of
women’s lives, the conceptualization and signiﬁcance of motherhood
has not been cross-culturally, or historically universal. Furthermore,
there has not been any one reason that women have been culturally
identiﬁed as the primary caretaker of children. Standard non-feminist
justiﬁcations for this role have ranged from the belief that women are
more childlike to the claim that they are innately nurturing. This latter conceptualization of mother-as-nurturer often played a central
role in early cultural feminist speculations on the moral and social
beneﬁts of a ‘‘mother-ruled’’ society or on the ways that women’s
nurturing instincts were an essential component of moral and social
progress. Despite the problematic essentializing of ‘‘woman’s nature’’ that may underpin this type of thinking, the image of woman
as nurturer is not necessarily bad in itself; rather, it is the meanings
and uses of this image under patriarchy that have been a central target of feminist criticism.
The dominant image in the West of motherhood developed with
the rise of the notion of a child-oriented, sentimental family in the
eighteenth century. Motherhood was ‘‘institutionalized’’ in the sense
that it became accepted that women are only fulﬁlled by motherhood
and that there is a set of behaviors and characteristics that deﬁne the
good mother. The earliest feminists of the ﬁrst wave did not critique
this institutional motherhood; indeed, the freedom of women to
mother properly was often bound up with early calls for women’s
liberation.
From the 1970s onwards, feminists began to make a distinction
between this problematic institutional motherhood and a potentially
liberating motherhood understood in terms of a connection to chil-

152 •

MULTICULTURAL FEMINISM

dren and the body. They also began to ask whether biological motherhood itself was a source of oppression, and whether true liberation
for women can come only when they are free of the burden of their
reproductive biology. There is no culturally universal form of this
burden. While women in the West may see it as a limitation of their
freedom for self-fulﬁllment and social advancement, the economic
needs of women in the Third World may mean that they need to produce children as future economic support.
The current focus of feminist philosophers is to examine both the
deﬁnition of motherhood and the value of motherhood. In the wake
of new advances in technology, such as surrogacy, feminist philosophers have asked whether motherhood is a genetic, gestational, or
caring relation to a child. In so doing, these philosophers are questioning the standard Western notion, often supported in courts of the
law, that the biological relation is central. This standard notion is part
of the institutional view of motherhood; its corollaries are the claims
that the biological mother makes the best carer and that children need
their biological mothers.
There is no agreement among feminist philosophers from any of
the philosophical traditions on the issue of the value of motherhood.
For some the strength of women may come literally from their ability
to bear children, while others have asked whether a mother-daughter
relationship—freed from patriarchy—can provide a new model of
the feminine. Motherhood has sometimes been understood by black
feminist philosophers as an empowering concept for black women.
They argue that, through looking back at their own mothers, they can
draw on a female-identiﬁed cultural tradition that evolved as a resource against racism and is also rooted in African tradition. Other
feminist philosophers have turned to the experiences of women as
mothers. Some have constructed a maternal ethics from these experiences that can provide an alternative to the dominant philosophical
tradition of moral philosophy. Others have examined the way that the
differences in experiences between mothers of color and white mothers can produce different understandings of the oppressive and empowering aspects of the institution of motherhood. See also
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
MULTICULTURAL FEMINISM. Multicultural feminist theory
started in the 1980s as a critique of the theorizing of ﬁrst and second

MURRAY, JUDITH SARGENT •

153

wave feminism. Black feminists in the United States are usually
seen as being at the forefront of the multicultural feminist movement.
Multicultural feminism shares with global feminism the notion that
all women are not fundamentally the same and the recognition that
there is a need for resistance to dominant groups of women speaking
for marginalized groups. However, unlike global feminism, it focuses
on examining differences within a particular nation.
Multicultural feminists argue that feminist theorizing of the ﬁrst
and second waves was not inclusive of all women; they hold that it
only addressed the political needs and interests of white, middleclass European and American women. A central strategy of feminism, at this stage of its development, was to emphasize the sameness
of the sexes in order to argue for equality of the sexes. Multicultural
feminists criticize this orthodox account of feminism for its neglect
of the differences in women’s experiences of oppression, arguing
that these differences are caused by women’s subjection to other systems of oppression, such as race and class. Multicultural feminists
claim that the fact that these systems interlock, and are mutually supportive, means that any attempt to analyze and remove women’s oppression will fail unless there is a simultaneous analysis and removal
of these other forms of oppression. Multicultural feminists claim, furthermore, that a neglect of difference constitutes its own form of oppression; women who are not part of the dominant group become
invisible and their particular needs and interests become marginalized within both feminist theory and the movement itself.
This type of critique had a galvanizing effect on feminist thought,
and most current feminists are committed to a recognition of the differences among women in their theorizing. For this reason, the use of
the term multicultural feminism to identify a distinct type of feminist
theory is falling out of use. Despite widespread agreement on the
need for inclusivity, however, there is no one set view of how this is
to be achieved. One central approach is to aim for a personal solidarity among women that comes from a friendship-based perception and
understanding of the world of others; the other central approach is to
aim for a political solidarity among different groups that is based on
shared goals, although it may never be one of a shared understanding.
MURRAY, JUDITH SARGENT (1751–1820). American philosopher
and writer Judith Sargent Murray was born into a wealthy Massachu-

154 •

NATURE

setts family. Her parents allowed her to be educated alongside her
brother. An able scholar, Murray recognized that she was deprived of
the beneﬁts of this education because of her sex: her brother went to
Harvard; she married.
Murray is a notable early example of a thinker who went beyond
merely raising feminist concerns; she offered a sustained and systematic feminist philosophy. The two works outlining her philosophy of
feminism are On the Equality of the Sexes, written in 1779 and published in 1790, and Desultory Thoughts upon the Utility of Encouraging Self-Complacency in the Female Bosom, published in 1784. In
On the Equality of Sexes, Murray outlines the metaphysical foundations of her philosophy. She holds that the spirit that animates the
human body is sexless, which then means that the intellect is also
sexless, and thus that the intellects of the two sexes must be equal.
Based on these ﬁrst principles, Murray develops in Desultory
Thoughts an account of the main aim of female education: to teach
young women to respect their own intellects. The practical usefulness
of this development of intellectual self-esteem is clear, as she intends
it to protect young women from making mistakes in their choice of
husbands. In the four essays the make up Observations on Female
Abilities, Murray aimed to prove, in the manner of a lawsuit, that
women are as intellectually capable as men. Among the examples
Murray lists as proof of her contention are the early feminist philosophers Mary Astell and Catharine Macaulay.

–N–
NATURE. Prior to the seventeenth century, nature was often conceived
in the West as a living, organic whole, with humans as a part of that
whole. A stock image for this conception of nature was a mother
who must be treated with respect and care. The other image for nature during this period was the competing image of a capricious
woman who could not be tamed or predicted.
With the advent of the scientiﬁc revolution, this second image of
nature expanded: nature became a disorderly woman who needed to
be dominated. A corollary of this feminization of nature is that it also
becomes a passive object, with the scientiﬁc inquirer as the active

NATURE •

155

subject. This imagery accompanied the new picture of scientiﬁc
knowledge, which can be seen as originating with Francis Bacon.
Feminist philosophers have claimed that Bacon does not simply hold
that knowledge is gained through domination of nature; rather, he
also conceives of knowledge itself as a control of a disorderly nature,
a nature that may even need to be forced to give up its secrets. For
underneath this disorder lies a mechanistic, regulated, inert nature
whose movement is not self-generated but is instead the effect of
being acted upon. This then means that nature is both potentially predictable and available to human control. For feminist philosophers,
this new conception of the scientiﬁc project is a gendered conception: scientiﬁc knowledge is the process of the seduction and domination of a female nature by a male inquirer.
This mechanistic view of nature, and the role of the scientist, became the dominant paradigm for scientiﬁc and philosophical thinking. This change in thinking also correlated to a more general change
in views of the earth spurred by the early beginnings of the industrialization of Europe; nature became something that was separate from
humans, but was for their use for technological and economic progress. However, while the view of nature as inert and mechanistic has
predominated since the seventeenth century, it was not the only available view. An organic view of nature was developed in the late
seventeenth century by the Cambridge Platonists, as well as vitalists
such as Anne Finch Conway and the seventeenth-century German
philosopher Gottfried Leibniz, in part as a response to this mechanistic view.
Throughout his scientiﬁc writings, Bacon used gender imagery to
describe the processes and goals of scientiﬁc inquiry, and this imagery continued to play out in later scientiﬁc and philosophical discourse. Feminist philosophers argue that this imagery reinforces both
cultural attitudes toward women of that time and the normative dualisms of man/woman and culture/nature. Furthermore, this imagery
also serves to identify the knower as male. Feminist philosophers
have charged that this type of imagery has contributed to the legacy
of the exclusion of women in scientiﬁc inquiry and has undermined
women’s epistemic authority.
Feminist philosophers of science have criticized the traditional
paradigm of science for its ideals of objectivity and value neutral-

156 •

NATURE, WOMEN’S

ity, ideals that some hold to be masculine. Some argue that if the
traditional conception of science is to be altered, its accompanying
view of nature must be changed, because the traditional conception
of science is reinforced by, and reinforces, the notion of nature as
inert and mechanistic.
Despite the often problematic metaphorical and cultural associations of nature with women, and the fact that these associations are
not historically or culturally universal, there can be productive connections made between feminism and nature. Ecofeminists, for example, argue that the conceptual and literal connections between the
oppression of women and the oppression of nature show that these
oppressions are interlocked. Thus ecofeminists hold that an understanding of the relationship between sexism and naturism is the key
to successful feminist theory and practice.
NATURE, WOMEN’S. See ESSENTIALISM.
NIETZSCHE, FRIEDRICH WILHELM (1844–1900). German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche is an inﬂuential, if controversial, ﬁgure
in Continental philosophy. Born in Röcken bei Lützen near Leipzig,
Nietzsche entered the University of Bonn in 1864. He began teaching
at the University of Basel in 1869 but lived an almost nomadic life
from 1880 onward, his most creative period. He published his ﬁrst
book, The Birth of Tragedy, in 1872. Two of his best-known works
are Thus Spoke Zarathustra (1883–1884) and Beyond Good and Evil
(1886).
Like most feminist rereadings of the history of philosophy, critique and analysis of Nietzsche began in the 1980s. Feminist interest
in his philosophy covers the whole spectrum of his different periods
of writing. Work falls into the two categories of feminist historical
analysis: investigation and critique of his comments on women and
the feminine; and consideration of his potential as a resource for
feminist philosophy.
Those who claim that Nietzsche has nothing to offer feminism
point to his remarks on and attitudes toward women. Nietzsche is certainly notorious for his misogynist remarks, likening women to animals, or claiming that women need to be physically dominated. In
Thus Spoke Zarathustra, Nietzsche reports a conversation in which

OBJECTIFICATION •

157

his interlocuter says, ‘‘You are going to women? Don’t forget your
whip!’’ In The Gay Science (1882), Nietzsche writes: ‘‘When we love
a woman, we easily conceive a hatred of nature on account of all the
repulsive natural functions to which every woman is subject.’’
Based on his assessment of gender differences, Nietzsche holds
that women should not take part in philosophy or politics; this is a
signiﬁcant claim, as he believes that these are among the most important social activities. He makes an even stronger anti-feminist claim
when he argues that equality of the sexes should be rejected, as it
would be disruptive of this difference. While there is nothing new in
the assertion of these hyper-traditional notions of women, it is perhaps unexpected in a philosopher known for his critical stance
toward cultural and philosophical tradition. However, it has also been
claimed that Nietzsche’s critiques of this tradition share ground with
feminist philosophical thought, due to his claims that objective detachment cannot be attained, and that truth cannot be understood as
separate from particular perspectives,
Thus far, the majority of work examining Nietzsche as a potential
resource has focused on his gender dualism. Such work has tended
to come out of contemporary French philosophy. On a closer examination, it can be seen that no one image or metaphor of women is
at play in Nietzsche’s work. For some feminist philosophers, these
multiple and sometimes contradictory images can supply an implicit
rejection of essentialist notions of women: notions that there is a
ﬁxed ‘‘woman’s’’ nature. These images, in conjunction with the ambiguities and ironies of his style of writing, have also led some philosophers—most notably Jacques Derrida—to see Nietzsche as
writing as woman. This may then mean that Nietzsche can provide a
resource for those feminist philosophers who wish to interrogate the
masculinity of the philosophical tradition from an alternative location: one that does not replicate the masculine positioning of this tradition. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
NORMATIVE DUALISM. See DUALISM.
–O–
OBJECTIFICATION. Feminist philosophers’ approach to the critique
of the objectiﬁcation of women is to produce an analysis of the con-

158 •

OBJECTIVITY

cept itself. The starting point for this analysis is the understanding
that the objectiﬁcation of women is grounded in mistaken assumptions about women’s sexuality. Thus the objectiﬁcation of women is
sexual objectiﬁcation: women are sexual objects. At the heart of
these assumptions about women’s sexuality is a culturally reinforced,
essentialist view of the actual nature of women: they are submissive.
Pornography has been cited as the most obvious form of objectiﬁcation.
Feminist philosophers have offered a variety of analyses of the
phenomenon, ranging from the claim that objectiﬁcation serves to reduce the social status of women, which undercuts claims for equality, to the claim that objectiﬁcation serves to alienate women from
their bodies. Some analyses examine the objectiﬁcation of women in
relation to other systems of oppression, such as capitalism or racism. Under capitalism, the lower socio-economic status of women—
reinforced by objectiﬁcation—serves to cloud male workers’
understanding of their own status, as they feel empowered by the literal or implicit domination of women. The most radical type of analysis maintains that the separation of subject/object, generated by the
philosophical ideal of objectivity, underpins sexual objectiﬁcation.
Feminist philosophers have also analyzed the ways that women
learn to self-objectify: for example, due to self-preservation, or to a
false consciousness engineered through the ‘‘fashion-beauty complex.’’ This does not mean, however, that all women ﬁnd being
treated as a sexual object to be oppressive. There is a distinction between being a thing and being an object of desire. This does not mean
that the latter is always non-problematic; it is context driven, and thus
some contexts may be less appropriate than others. See also SUBJECTIVITY.
OBJECTIVITY. Objectivity—detached thought from the world—is a
central ideal for philosophical and scientiﬁc inquiry. Objectivity is
seen in opposition to, and deﬁned against, subjectivity. In the standard view, which is usually seen as having its ﬁrst explicit formulation in René Descartes’s philosophy, the philosophical or scientiﬁc
knower can only attain true knowledge free of her or his differences
from other knowers, in particular the differences of bodies and values. Thus value neutrality and the ability to detach and remain sepa-

OBJECTIVITY •

159

rated from objects of knowledge are the accompanying requirements
for objectivity. The strength of the ideal of objectivity is that, even
though knowledge is attained by individual knowers, this knowledge
can also be attained by other knowers; thus there is the possibility of
universal truths for science or moral principles for ethics.
Feminist philosophers, in particular feminist philosophers of science, have questioned whether what Donna Haraway has termed the
‘‘god trick’’ is possible, and also whether objectivity is a useful ideal
for the political goals of feminist philosophy. There have been different approaches to criticizing the possibility of objectivity. Postmodernist feminists reject the ideal knowing subject; they posit a
multiplicity of subjects who are partially constituted by social and
political forces that are often beyond their control. The postmodernist
rejection of the traditional concept of the objective, knowing subject
is also a rejection of the possibility of a privileged knowledge as well
as of universal truths and moral principles.
Other approaches to the critique of the ideal of objectivity have
been more explicitly feminist. Underpinning the different approaches
is a shared position that objectivity is gendered, unattainable by
women and conceptually confused, as it is itself the product of a male
subjectivity. Feminist philosophers argue that, within the philosophical tradition, objectivity is a requirement for a symbolically male
reason. They may also maintain that this ideal reﬂects a male experience of the world, in particular men’s possibilities for autonomy and
separation. Thus it is contrary to women’s experiences, which are
more grounded in the social and material world.
A further argument is that objectivity is an ideology that serves to
reinforce the oppression of women, and other marginalized groups,
as the ideal of objectivity either literally—or metaphorically—places
(white) men in the position of a privileged access to knowledge.
Knowledge and power are seen to be mutually reinforcing; thus a
lack of access to knowledge for disadvantaged groups reinforces the
power of dominant groups. In the case of science, this ideology reinforces the belief that the results of scientiﬁc inquiry are in actuality
value neutral. In this way, scientiﬁc theories that reﬂect sexist attitudes are taken as objectively truthful, and thus can serve to reinforce
problematic views of the nature and social status of women. One of
the most radical critiques of objectivity as an ideal is that the separa-

160 •

OBJECT RELATIONS THEORY

tion of knower and object underpins the objectiﬁcation of women by
men.
The question for feminist philosophy is whether to reject or revise the ideal of objectivity for knowledge. French feminists
have not interrogated the notion per se, but they implicitly reject
the ideal through taking up a symbolic position of female (i.e., a
subjective position) as a strategy to subvert the dichotomies of masculine thought and language. The notion of objectivity has been an
important element of Anglo-American analytic feminist work in
epistemology and science. Analytic feminists typically reject the
formulation of the traditional ideal, for a wholesale rejection will
destabilize other important ideals grounded upon it, such as justice.
They usually aim, instead, for a revised notion of objectivity, one
that will be able to support the political and epistemological goals
of the feminist project.
Often underlying different feminist reconceptualizations of objectivity is the recognition that knowledge cannot be value free, and thus
that it must begin from the right set of values: the removal of oppression and domination. The claim is that this explicitly value-laden position is not only realizable, but may in fact serve to achieve the goals
of objectivity, as it will produce a more universal knowledge. The
process of achieving knowledge must also include a recognition both
of subjectivity and of the epistemic potential of different perspectives. However, there is a concern among both the supporters and
critics of a revised objectivity that this latter claim may slip too easily
into a problematic relativism: different knowledges or moralities are
equally valid. If this is indeed the case, then this undercuts any claim
that there is a feminist, and thus correct, position from which to critique and understand the subordination of women. See also DUALISM; IMPARTIALITY.
OBJECT RELATIONS THEORY. Object relations theory has become part of psychoanalytic feminism. However, feminist philosophers have also found it possible to use the explanatory framework
provided by object relations theories without taking on wholesale the
intricacies of psychoanalytic theorizing. Feminist philosophers have
focused on the ‘‘social’’ relations school of thought, in particular the
theories of Nancy Chodorow in her 1978 work The Reproduction of

OBJECT RELATIONS THEORY •

161

Mothering: Psychoanalysis and the Sociology of Gender. There has
been little interest in the other school of thought, based on the work
of Melanie Klein, which focuses on psychical life.
Social object relations theory offers an explanation of the process
of gender identiﬁcation in children. This is the process of the internalization of their social relations to their parents. The speciﬁcs of
the process are not universal; there can be variants depending on, for
example, cultural variations in child-rearing practices. This psychological development occurs during the ﬁrst three years of our life.
Initially, the infant establishes a close relation (‘‘symbiosis’’) with its
primary caretaker, who is typically the mother. Next the infant develops a sense of self through ‘‘separation’’ from the mother, which
is a process of differentiation and development of a sense of self, and
through ‘‘individuation,’’ which is a process of establishing a set of
individual character traits. What is important for feminists is the fact
that this sense of self is accompanied by a sense of gender. Moreover,
this sense of oneself as gendered is also accompanied by an internalization of the higher or lower social value placed on that particular
gender.
The process of separation and individuation is different for female
and male children. The female does not separate completely from the
mother, and thus she identiﬁes with relationality and caring. The
male, on the other hand, achieves separation through an identiﬁcation
with a (distant) father. The particulars of this process of male separation are a distancing through the devaluation of women, the suppression of identiﬁably ‘‘female’’ elements, and a reinforcement of this
suppression through controlling them. In its turn this leads to a need
to control their object: the mother/women. In this way, the child’s
identity as male is wrapped up with aggression, control, and autonomy.
Social object relations theory has been of interest to feminist philosophers, not just because of its contributions to an understanding
of the construction of gender, but also because it can offer an explanatory framework within which to analyze the philosophical enterprise
itself. For some feminist philosophers, object relations theory can
offer an explanation of the dominant themes and ideals present in the
history of philosophy, many of which remain in one form or another
in current philosophy. They claim that, because philosophy is a tradi-

162 •

OBJECT RELATIONS THEORY

tionally male preserve, its deﬁnition and construction reﬂect male
identity; thus philosophy is a male enterprise.
Some feminist philosophers argue that the need to control and devalue women plays out in the philosophical ‘‘need’’ of traditional
Western philosophy to control ‘‘feminine’’ passions in order to
achieve rationality and knowledge. Human passions or emotions are
traditionally depicted as having a lesser value than human reason;
sometimes they are even framed as being dangerous to rational
thought and knowledge. It has also been claimed that this desire for
control plays out in philosophical and scientiﬁc attitudes that see a
feminized nature as an object to be dominated. Object relations theory has also been seen by some feminist philosophers to offer an explanation of why it has been so difﬁcult to break out of the
framework of dualist thinking of the Western tradition: it is part of
our psyche.
The male self has also been seen as a central element of moral
theorizing, both past and present. The traditional picture of the moral
agent is notably male, according to object relations theory: impartial, autonomous, unemotional, and ultra-individualist. Similarly,
the notion of a separated and isolated individual is often foundational
to theorizing in the philosophy of mind, political philosophy, and
liberal political theory. Feminist philosophers have also claimed that
the distant, separated male self has underpinned the traditional ideal
of the objective, separated knower of epistemology and science. Indeed, it has been claimed that there is an association of knowledge
and science with ‘‘maleness,’’ an association that functions to exclude women.
For some feminist philosophers, object relations theory does not
simply explain what they see as the ‘‘maleness’’ of philosophical
thinking; they hold that object relations theory can also help a critical
understanding of how that thinking can be changed. The claim is that
if the pattern of parenting, and thus human development, were different, then philosophical thinking would become more relational, contextual, and so forth. Other feminist philosophers hold the less
radical view that philosophical thinking needs to be moderated
through a revaluing of ‘‘feminine’’ thinking. Thus far the latter approach has had more inﬂuence on the philosophical enterprise; for
example, the notion of care in ethics as providing an alternative, or

OPPRESSION •

163

a corrective, to traditional moral philosophy has become relatively
mainstream.
Object relations theory, however, has also been the target of criticism from feminist philosophers. The theory is criticized because it
accepts the problematic fact that the primary caretaker is the mother,
a position that ultimately reinforces patriarchy. In a similar vein, it
is also claimed that object relations theories cannot explain the existence of people who do not possess their assigned gender characteristics, nor can it explain how these characteristics can be changed. This
means that object relations theory is open to a charge of essentialism: that there is a ﬁxed ‘‘woman’s’’ nature. Moreover, it has been
challenged for its uncritical acceptance of heterosexual pair bonding
as the norm. See also GILLIGAN, CAROL; SUBJECTIVITY.
ONTOLOGY. See METAPHYSICS.
OPPRESSION. Oppression is a central term in feminist discourse;
however, it is generally agreed that there is no one shared way that
different social groups are oppressed or experience oppression.
Moreover, even though feminist theory is characterized by a commitment to the analysis and alleviation of the oppression of women,
there is disagreement among theorists over the causes or roots of this
oppression. Despite this, some feminist philosophers have shown that
it is possible to produce analyses that identify certain characteristics
of oppression, even though oppressed groups do not always experience all of them.
In this type of analysis, it is understood that oppression is not an
experience of individuals as individuals; rather, it is experienced by
an individual because of membership in a particular group or groups.
Furthermore, oppression is not understood in terms of governmental
or political repression but in terms of an interlocking system of disadvantage and injustice—in particular, economic, political, and ideological disadvantage and injustice. In terms of economics, women
are, for example, often encouraged to enter traditionally female—and
thus lower-paid—occupations. In terms of the political, certain
rights or legal protections can be denied to women. Ideologically,
stereotyping or controlling images serve both to control and marginalize women; women are not recognized as individuals but as repre-

164 •

‘‘OTHER’’

sentatives of a certain ‘‘type’’ of woman, and dismissed accordingly.
These barriers of oppression need not be an external force. They can
also be internalized by individuals of the oppressed group, who will
then monitor and restrict their own behaviors. This interlocking system of disadvantage and injustice not only serves to disempower speciﬁc groups but also serves to make them more vulnerable to
violence or the threat of violence.
One of two central reasons that institutional oppression has been
hard to dismantle is the way that its interlocking nature leads to its
invisibility. There appears, for example, to be no obvious reason why
women cannot achieve the qualiﬁcations or promotions that would
lead to equality of pay with men. This ignores the ways that cultural
views of women’s personalities play into their employment opportunities, or racial stereotypes lead to women of color being directed
toward (lower-paid) service work. The other central reason for continued institutional oppression is that the restrictions placed on one
group serve to privilege another group, which would be hesitant not
only to give up such privilege but even to acknowledge its existence.
‘‘OTHER’’ (THE ‘‘OTHER’’). See BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE;
FRENCH FEMINISM.

–P–
PACIFISM. See CULTURAL FEMINISM; WAR AND PEACE.
PATRIARCHY. Radical feminists adopted the term patriarchy, literally ‘‘rule of the fathers,’’ from the non-normative anthropological
description of certain types of social organization. In the anthropological context, patriarchy refers to the structure of a family that is
organized around one older man who has control over the family
members. In the feminist context, patriarchy refers to a system of
male power—economic, social, political, material, ideological and
psychological—that produces the oppression of women. Not all men
have equal power in relation to each other under patriarchy; however,
many feminists argue that men as a group all have the power to dominate women. Thus it is ultimately in men’s interests to maintain a

PIZAN, CHRISTINE DE •

165

patriarchal system, even if it means that men themselves are subject
to the hierarchies (e.g., class) within that system.
Patriarchy for radical feminists is a universal and ﬁxed system of
male domination that affects all women in one way or another; other
feminist theorists have argued that this position is oversimplistic.
These latter theorists hold that patriarchy has different historical
forms, and they typically focus on one particular element of the system of patriarchy as the central cause or basis of oppression. More
controversially, some theorists argue that the patriarchal conceptual
framework constructs reality itself through the use of dualisms and
value hierarchies. Despite differences in how the system of patriarchy is understood, it remains a useful political concept for feminists
to encapsulate the oppression of women.
PIZAN, CHRISTINE DE (DE PISAN) (1365–ca. 1430). Christine de
Pizan was born in Venice but grew up in Paris. She is sometimes
credited as being the ﬁrst professional writer. Much of the information available about her life comes from her Avision written in 1405.
Here she describes the way her father encouraged her intellectual
growth and education, and her early forays into writing poetry,
which were stimulated by ﬁnancial need. Christine (which is how she
is usually called) was married at the age of ﬁfteen, a normal age for
that period, and widowed ten years later. After her husband’s death,
she supported her family ﬁnancially and dealt with the legal issues
connected to his estate. In La Mutacion de Fortune (The Mutation of
Fortune), she describes this period as one in which she had to ‘‘become a man,’’ in that she took on traditionally male responsibilities
and roles.
Christine wrote on a variety of subjects, including military ethics
and government. Her most famous work, the 1405 Le Livre de la Cité
des Dames (The Book of the City of Ladies), is also the work that
allows her to be classiﬁed (although not without some dissent) as a
proto-feminist. The title was inspired by Augustine’s City of God,
and the work contains examples of virtuous women that were often
drawn from Boccaccio’s De Mulieribus Claris (Concerning Famous
Women). These and other references to works of literature and philosophy in the City of Ladies not only show the breadth of Christine’s

166 •

PLATO

own learning, but they also function as part of her argument: to demonstrate the possibility that women could be learned.
The City of Ladies is an allegorical work that describes the construction of a walled city (in essence a series of rebuttals and positive
arguments) designed both to protect virtuous women of all social
classes (‘‘ladies’’) from the slanders of the misogynist literature of
the time, as well as to alleviate the real-life oppression under which
actual women lived. A second work, which is sometimes called Le
Trésor de la Cité des Dames (The Treasury of the City of Ladies), is
a more practical work aimed at teaching the virtues necessary to live
in this city.
Modern feminist philosophers have shown some interest in Christine’s work. Karen Green’s examination of Christine’s corpus has uncovered a not unproblematic maternal ethics and a maternalist
political theory underpinning Christine’s writings on ethics and government. Green argues that the latter is of interest for those working
in feminist political philosophy on a non-contractual framing of
political relations.
PLATO (ca. 428–347 BCE). The philosopher Plato, an Athenian
Greek from an aristocratic family, was a follower of the philosopher
Socrates (ca. 470–399 BCE). Plato founded the Academy in Athens,
a place of intellectual study for young men (including Aristotle, who
entered the Academy in 367 BCE). Almost every work by Plato takes
the form of a dialogue, usually featuring Socrates among the protagonists. The philosophical relationship between Socrates and Plato in
these dialogues has been the subject of much debate; works that feature Socrates as the main interlocutor are not usually taken as simply
reports of the views of the historical Socrates.
Thus far, only a few of Plato’s dialogues have been the subject of
feminist discussion: the Republic, the Symposium, and the Timaeus.
Discussion has centered on how to interpret Plato’s explicit discussions of women, and how to interpret the way that the feminine plays
out in Plato’s philosophy. The former approach is more typical of
feminist interpretations from the 1970s and 1980s, while the latter is
more typical of current work. The vast majority of feminist philosophical work on Plato has tended to revolve around the question of
whether Plato can be considered a feminist. The attribution of the

PLATO •

167

label ‘‘feminist’’ to Plato is made complex, not only because it is a
modern term, but also because of the different deﬁnitions of feminism held by commentators.
The focal dialogue for discussion of Plato’s feminism has been the
Republic, speciﬁcally Republic V. In this section, Socrates gives an
account of the ideal or just state, one that, among other things, requires rulers—‘‘guardians’’—who have been taught wisdom and
goodness: they are philosophers. For feminist philosophers, the crucial element in this section of the dialogue is that Socrates includes
women among the guardians.
Considered the ﬁrst argument of its kind, Plato advocates equality
of education and opportunity for those women who have natures
suitable for the role of guardian. In the dialogue, Socrates holds that
the only natural differences between the sexes are the basic biological differences; he denies the existence of any further differences
upon which it could be maintained that women lack the capacity to
perform certain tasks or hold certain occupations. This component of
the argument has been seen as anticipating modern feminist thinking,
especially that of liberal feminism. For this reason, Plato has been
commended for his progressive thinking and has been given the label
of ‘‘ﬁrst feminist.’’ Some feminist philosophers have disputed this
label on the grounds that Plato does not give all members of the ideal
state education and opportunity; this type of social hierarchy is antithetical to feminism.
The central premise of the argument for inclusion of women
among the guardians has proved to be a sticking point. In the dialogue, Socrates—most likely the mouthpiece for Plato at this period
of Plato’s writing, rather than the historical person—grounds his argument on the claim that men are typically better than women in all
areas of activity, even those that are traditionally the role of women.
The conclusion Socrates draws from this is that sex does not determine occupation or activity; the determiner is individual natures.
Problematically, Socrates also has to draw the conclusion from this
argument that, in any of these activities and occupations, women as
a group are less able than men as a group.
A further element of guardian life is their communal living. Not
only is private property abolished but, to all intents and purposes, so
is the traditional family structure. The male and female guardians

168 •

PLATO

will be chosen by lot for temporary ‘‘marriages,’’ while the children
produced from these unions will be placed in a communal nursery
and identiﬁed as the children of all those guardians who were ‘‘married’’ at the time of their conception. For some feminist interpreters,
the question is then whether this abolition of the private family is
related to Plato’s inclusion of women in guardian occupations; some
interpreters have asked whether this is simply a question of efﬁcient
use of resources. Other interpreters have questioned the implications
of this minimizing of women’s reproductive role by asking, for example, whether it serves to devalue women’s function as child bearers and rearers.
Looking beyond the question of Plato’s feminism, other feminist
interpreters have considered the relationship between Platonic philosophy and the feminine. The Timaeus and the Symposium have been
the focal dialogues for these latter discussions. In the Timaeus, Plato
describes and explains the creation of the universe. The original humans were male, but those who cannot control their passions properly, by using their reason, were reborn as women. Feminist
interpreters have pointed out that not only are women depicted as less
perfect than men, but reason and emotion become both gendered
and hierarchically ordered.
In the Symposium, the central protagonist is Socrates, who speaks
of how love progresses from the human to the divine. He claims that
we love beauty in other people, and from that physical love, we ultimately progress to knowing beauty itself. Crucially for feminist interpreters, Socrates reports his discussion with a Mantinean woman
called Diotima on the subject of love, and he claims that it is from
her that he learned his philosophy of love. The ﬁgure of Diotima,
however, is ambiguous. Some feminist interpreters have asked if
there is signiﬁcance in the fact that she is not an actual participant in
the dialogue, claiming that the feminine then becomes marginalized.
Conversely, other interpreters have asked if there is signiﬁcance in
the fact that it is a woman who leads men to philosophical knowledge; it has been argued that Diotima could reﬂect an ancient Greek
tradition of female wisdom, and an authority that is still present in
the cultural life of Plato’s contemporaries. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.

POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY •

169

POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY. Within feminist philosophy there is no clear distinction between the ﬁelds of political
and social philosophy, as feminist philosophy itself is both a social
and a political philosophy. Feminist political and social philosophy
can be divided into three main categories: the analysis of traditional
political texts and theories; the critique and revision of traditional
questions and concepts; and the introduction and development of
new areas and lenses of analysis. Some feminist philosophers have
focused on the analysis of the different types of feminist theory or
on the requirements for theoretical adequacy within feminist theorizing. On the whole, however, this has not been a dominant strand in
political analysis.
It is typical practice for non-feminist philosophers who examine
both classical and contemporary political theories to ignore comments about, or the invisibility of, women. Feminist philosophers,
however, consider a study of the ways that philosophers’ theories
about women interconnect with their political philosophies to be important to an understanding of these philosophies. Feminist philosophers criticize, in particular, the ways that the invisibility of women,
of areas culturally associated with women (such as education of children), and of social and political relations between women and men
affect theorizing about arrangements of political and social life. This
type of analysis then leads to the ultimate question of whether these
theories have the capacity to include women and issues associated
with women, that is, whether these theories are universal enough to
count as an adequate theory at all.
Feminist philosophers argue that the boundaries and concepts of
traditional political thought are deﬁned against the social realities of
women’s lives. Traditionally, the political life is identiﬁed with the
life of men, deﬁned as a life of autonomous, unrelated, individualistic beings, whereas the domestic life, the life culturally associated
with women, is one of connection with dependent others. Conﬁned
to the domestic sphere, the contribution of women to political life is
limited to such things as the production and education of future citizens. This conceptual and cultural division—the public/private distinction—of social life into the dichotomy of public and private
spheres is at the heart of traditional political theorizing. Thus it has

170 •

POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY

served both to write women out of theories of political life and to
exclude them in reality from this life.
The central contribution of feminist thinkers to political philosophy is the rejection of this public/private distinction and its use in
political philosophy. In addition, the erasure of this distinction allows
feminist philosophers to explore new subject areas, concepts, and
ways of building theory.
The breaking down of the public/private distinction has allowed
feminist philosophers to theorize about social and political issues of
particular interest to women, such as reproductive choice. However,
some feminist philosophers have stated that this categorizing of certain issues as ‘‘women’s issues’’ must be approached cautiously. Historically, the supposed differences between men’s and women’s
political interests contributed to women’s status as second-class citizens. Even if this were not the case, categorizing certain issues as
‘‘women’s’’ may entail that differences among the needs and interests of women, as a group, become invisible.
The dismantling of the distinction has also meant that traditional
divisions between social and political philosophy become blurred
within feminist philosophy: there is little distinction between application (speciﬁc issues) and theory (how to organize political and social
life). Analysis that is political in nature forms the groundwork for
discussions of social issues, for feminist philosophy is, by deﬁnition,
politicized. Conversely, social issues are part of feminist political
theorizing, which is, by deﬁnition, contextual and practical.
The abandonment of the public/private distinction also leads to the
abandonment of the traditional conception of the political subject, the
conception that is still dominant today. This subject is an independent, freely choosing individual, whose political life is conducted
solely in the public sphere among other such individuals. Thus the
goal of traditional political arrangements is to regulate the interactions of these unrelated individuals and to maximize their involvement in political life. These are arrangements that are naturally
grounded in the abstract concepts of equality, justice, rights, and
citizenship.
For feminist philosophers, the political subject is not an abstract
entity. This subject cannot be separated from a recognition of our
relationships to others and the dependency that these produce. Thus

POLITICAL SOLIPSISM •

171

some feminist philosophers argue that the goal of political arrangements is to protect and promote relationships among citizens; it is
not to protect them from each other, or to promote their individual
freedoms. Feminist philosophers also criticize the central concepts of
the traditional model. A major criticism is that the abstractness and
gender neutrality of these concepts may, in fact, work against the
actual liberation of women, as they ﬂatten the important differences
between men and women. Thus these concepts make invisible the
different requirements for female equality: for example, reproductive
choice. Some feminists of color, in particular black Americans, have
been at the forefront of the debate over the usefulness for political
philosophy of both the notion of gender-neutral justice and the traditional concept of equality. They argue that the gender-neutral/gender-speciﬁc and equality/difference dichotomies are too universal,
and that they thus fail to recognize the speciﬁc needs of women and
men of different races and classes.
Feminist philosophers have offered a variety of different approaches to producing alternative or revised political theories. One
central approach is the integration of the notion of care with justice.
Its proponents claim that an approach based in the ethics of care
allows for a more contextualized approach, one that can give equal
priority to the relationships among individuals. This could then lead,
for example, to the placing of the family, not the individual, as the
political unit for which political arrangements are made. Another approach is to reject a universal model of citizenship and create a model
or models that recognize gender difference as a means toward political and civil equality. There is some disagreement over the adequacy
of both of these proposals. The former has been the subject of the
standard criticisms for any ethic of care: for example, care is associated with women’s traditional—subordinating—roles as wife and
mother. The latter has been criticized because of its assumption that
there is enough universality and identity among women to produce a
gender-sensitive model of citizenship. See also BLACK FEMINIST
PHILOSOPHY; POLITICAL SOLIPSISM; SUBJECTIVITY.
POLITICAL SOLIPSISM. Political solipsism is a term, used mainly
by feminist philosophers, to describe the notion that humans are not
only fundamentally solitary but also potentially in competition with

172 •

PORNOGRAPHY

others for resources and the satisfaction of needs. This notion of
human nature is a foundational assumption of liberal political theory, and thus it is also a foundational assumption for liberal feminism.
Given this notion of human nature, one of the central questions for
liberal political theory is how these solitary individualistic beings
can form a civil society. This society will need to ensure the maximum amount of freedom and autonomy of these individuals—
compatible with the freedom and autonomy of others—to pursue
their own interests and needs. This question can be seen to play out
in the way that mainstream liberal feminism aims to produce a society that guarantees equality, especially in the workplace, and freedom, especially sexual freedom, for women. Liberal feminists hold
that, once barriers to their freedom of choice and equality of opportunity are removed, women will be able to achieve individual fulﬁllment.
Some feminist philosophers have claimed that this way of viewing
human nature exhibits male bias, as it relies on a conception of the
self as rational and autonomous—concepts that are identiﬁed with
‘‘maleness.’’ Furthermore, this notion conﬂicts with lived human experience and human biology, in particular the fact that human children are necessarily dependent on others, and thus that social groups
are formed in order to raise children. See also POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; SUBJECTIVITY.
PORNOGRAPHY. The rise of radical feminism in the 1970s, and its
critique of heterosexual relationships as relationships of male power,
provided the intellectual background against which the contemporary
feminist philosophical debate over pornography has taken shape.
There are many different elements within the contemporary feminist
debate over pornography. As models and actors are part of the production process, it can be seen as a form of sex work; thus it raises
many of the same issues as the debate over prostitution. The pornography debate also includes questions about the representation of
women and sexuality and the nature of freedom of expression. At the
foundation of this debate lies the problem of the actual characterization of pornography itself. Feminist characterizations differ from
non-feminist characterizations, in that they focus on the context in

POSTFEMINISM •

173

which pornography is produced and consumed, and the effects it may
or may not have on women.
Typically, anti-pornography feminists claim that what is problematic about pornography is not its sexual content, but the connection
of that sexual content with violence against or degradation of women.
The task is then to show in what ways pornography harms women.
One claim is that this connection is causal: that pornography leads to
sexual violence against women. However, this has been hard to prove
conclusively one way or the other. Another claim is that pornography
tells lies about women, showing them not only to be sexually subordinate but to want this subordination; these lies contribute to a cultural and social environment that is harmful to women.
While this latter claim has strengths as an anti-pornography analysis, it conﬂicts with claims over the value and nature of the freedom
of expression; this is an issue that resonates especially in the United
States. There is not enough clear evidence of harm to warrant state
interference with the right to freedom of speech claimed by the producers and the consumers of pornography. One response to this has
been the argument that pornography is not just a form of expression
but a particular discriminatory activity. In other words, pornography
itself subordinates women. Not all feminist philosophers, however,
endorse an anti-pornography position. Some philosophers are concerned that some kind of ban on pornography would lead to a dampening effect that would curtail the freedom of speech and restrict the
freedom of women to explore forms of sexuality that have been labeled unacceptable by patriarchal culture. See OBJECTIFICATION; LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF; POLITICAL AND
SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
POSTFEMINISM. The term postfeminism has two different meanings. Its primary use is to describe a conservative reaction, both in
the media and in academia, toward second wave feminism. Typically, these postfeminists claim that feminism has achieved its goals
or has outlived its usefulness and is no longer related to the needs of
women. Its secondary use has been to describe the feminist theorizing that sees second wave feminism as untenable, because of its reliance on a problematically essentialist notion of ‘‘women’’: women

174 •

POSTMODERN

have a ﬁxed nature. See also FIRST WAVE FEMINISM; THIRD
WAVE FEMINISM.
POSTMODERN (POSTMODERNIST) FEMINISM. There is no
one uniﬁed or shared postmodern feminist position. Postmodern feminists characterize themselves as having taken on the postmodernist
challenge to the Western intellectual tradition, but as using that challenge to theorize about the marginalization and domination of women
within the dominant discourse of this tradition. Postmodern feminist
philosophy shows inﬂuences of, among others, Jacques Derrida,
Michel Foucault, Jean-François Lyotard, and French feminists,
such as Luce Irigaray. The variations within postmodernist feminist
theorizing are, in part, the reﬂection of the differing natures of these
philosophical inﬂuences.
While it is generally agreed that the feminist philosophical project
shares with postmodernism a desire to critique modernism—the
thought of the Enlightenment—there is disagreement over what follows from this. Feminist philosophers disagree over whether they
should align themselves with the postmodernist project in its entirety
and thus reject modernism wholesale. They also disagree over
whether it is possible to extract and appropriate postmodernist analyses of notions such as self, power, gender, subjectivity, difference,
body, and sexuality. The third main disagreement is over whether
the two projects are in an insoluble tension.
The postmodern critique shares with feminist philosophy a sweeping critique of the epistemological ideals and elements of the Enlightenment, speciﬁcally of the notion that there is a universal form
of human nature characterized by reason. In this (rejected) picture,
it is through the use of reason that humans can attain knowledge but,
in order to utilize this capacity, the reasoning knower needs to be
unsituated: free of particular social and bodily differences and subjective values. Freed from a subjective position in this way, this individualistic knower can attain a position of objectivity, and thus the
possibility of reaching universal truths: knowledge that can be attained by all objective reasoning knowers.
Postmodernism and feminist philosophy share an understanding
that the traditional epistemological project—and its goals, ideals, and
characteristics—is not a true project or an objective project; rather, it

POSTMODERN •

175

comes out of a speciﬁc historical time, place, and politics: those of
the Enlightenment. Part of the rejection of this picture is the understanding that knowledge is not objective and universal; rather, it is
constructed within systems of power. Not only does this critique
open up the possibility of a plurality of knowledges, but it entails a
rejection of the modernist concept of the objects of knowledge on the
grounds that it is essentialist, and thus fails to recognize difference.
This critique plays out in speciﬁc criticisms of the possibility of absolutes, all-encompassing or totalizing theories, non-contextual theorizing, the ideal of objectivity, and the role of reason for knowledge.
Despite these shared perspectives, postmodernist feminists critique the standard feminist philosophical project, and non-postmodern feminists, in their turn, critique the postmodernist project. This
tension ultimately comes from their different perspectives on the failure of modernism.
Feminist theory, in general, does not just demand description and
analysis of women’s oppression but also requires theories within
which analysis can lead to solutions for this oppression; thus the feminist position is inherently political. The feminist theoretical project
is seen by many postmodernists to attempt, mistakenly, to replace the
‘‘grand narrative’’ of the Enlightenment with another type of totalizing theory. Unlike Enlightenment theorizing, feminist theory is not
grounded in abstract, objective, universal truths attained by non-situated knowers; instead, its starting point is the particular knowledge
generated by women’s experiences. This starting point, however, for
postmodernists is problematically essentialist, as it relies on some
kind of stable category of women that is somehow independent of
discourse. Moreover, the goal of this knowledge is to ﬁnd some universal cause or causes of the oppression of women, and thus some
shared strategy of liberation. This is not just problematic in itself,
according to postmodernist thought; it is also problematic because
this knowledge is based on an assumed essentialism and universalism
that is the hallmark of (rejected) Western thought.
Whereas the ultimate goal of the feminist project is problematic
for postmodernists, for feminist philosophers this is the point at
which postmodernism fails. They argue that the theorizing of postmodernism is inadequate because it cannot satisfy the political need
for some kind of uniﬁed notion of ‘‘women’’: a social subject. More-

176 •

POSTMODERN

over, many feminist philosophers claim that this social subject is not
some kind of essentialist notion of a female nature; rather, its construction is open to difference among women. They argue, furthermore, that an abandonment of the category of gender will mean that
feminist politics can only be a personal politics of individuals; thus
the feminist project ends before it has begun. This abandonment of
the possibility of categorizing women into a group or groups is of
particular concern to those groups of women, such as women of color
or lesbians, who wish to combat their marginalization within feminist
theory itself by asserting that—within the more general category of
women—they have a distinct political identity of their own.
Non-postmodern feminist philosophers, moreover, hold that postmodernism may fail women. They argue that women are not yet in
a position to share the postmodernist goal of complete rejection of
Enlightenment notions of knowledge and reality, as women have not
yet fully beneﬁted from the political and social changes of the Enlightenment. Moreover, until feminists have fully analyzed whether
modernist thought contributed to women’s subordination, it will not
be clear if it should be rejected. Thus postmodernism and its position
of the decentered self may, in fact, be a position of privilege. This
claim is further bolstered by the fact that male postmodernists, such
as Derrida and Foucault, have not truly included a questioning of
gender in their theorizing.
The fact that the rejection of the Western epistemological project
leads to relativism is another contentious issue for feminist philosophy, as it entails that the discourse of feminism is simply one among
others. Feminist philosophers require a position from which they can
critique the value system of patriarchy as well as maintain that their
own system is more valuable, holds more truth, and offers more accurate knowledge than other systems. A crucial element of the feminist epistemological project is the uncovering of male-biased reality;
this then entails that there is another (feminist) reality that can be
constructed. From a postmodernist perspective, however, this is a
problematic totalizing and unitary theoretical position.
Despite these tensions, there are feminist philosophers who selfidentify as postmodernist, and there is little doubt that postmodernist
thought is increasingly inﬂuential on analytic feminism. Many feminist philosophers recognize that postmodern feminist philosophy is

PRAGMATISM •

177

in a position to offer a radical resistance to the essentialism and dualism of patriarchal discourse and that it can do so without itself occupying a position within this discourse. Postmodernist feminist
philosophers consciously take on Simone de Beauvoir’s notion of
the ‘‘Other,’’ a position that is outside the dominant discourse. From
this position, they can critique patriarchal discourse and its dualist
construction of reality, as well as create new systems of meaning,
language, and knowledge. The strength of postmodern feminist philosophy is that it deconstructs the discourse of Western intellectual
thought; it does not replace this thought with another—problematic
—totalizing discourse, a trajectory that non-postmodernist feminists
recognize as a risk of their own philosophical project. Postmodern
feminists reject the charge of relativism, arguing that it is only within
Western intellectual discourse that the oppositional categories of personal/political and objective/subjective have meaning, and thus the
tension between feminist politics and postmodernism is illusory.
The inﬂuence of postmodernist thought on feminist philosophy, in
general, is hard to measure, as it has not entered feminist philosophy
wholesale, but rather surfaces in general concerns about unitary categories, difference, and totalizing theories. The central contribution
made by feminist philosophers who are either inﬂuenced by or hold
the postmodernist perspective is a critique of the fundamental lens of
feminist analysis: the category of gender. Postmodernist critiques of
essentialism have moved the gender debate from the overly simple
sex/gender distinction to a more nuanced and politically productive
analysis, one that has allowed discussion of the multiple experiences
of women and the differences among them. This type of critique has
helped feminist philosophers become aware of the risks of the processes and goals of theorizing: feminist theories may, in their turn, be
totalizing and thus marginalize, for example, non-Western women.
See also CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY; SUBJECTIVITY.
POWER. See BACON, FRANCIS; FOUCAULT, MICHEL; MILL,
JOHN STUART; PATRIARCHY.
PRAGMATISM. Feminist philosophers have shown little interest in
the American tradition of pragmatist philosophy; rather, the project
of critiquing and appropriating the Anglo-American and European

178 •

PREGNANCY

philosophical traditions dominates feminist history of philosophy.
This neglect may be mutual, as traditional pragmatism and its more
modern versions appear to have little to say directly about the situation of women.
For these reasons, feminist work on pragmatism has tended to remain focused on the task of showing why this marginalized tradition
has signiﬁcance for the feminist philosophical project, in particular
through showing the similar relations of these two philosophies to
the mainstream tradition. One possible reason for the marginalization
of pragmatism within the mainstream tradition is that it does not
share the tradition’s masculine nature. If this is indeed the case, then
there could be some signiﬁcant shared ground between pragmatism
and feminist philosophy. Moreover, pragmatism appears to take a
more feminine approach to theorizing: it is grounded in particulars
not abstractions, on human relations, and the individual philosophizes out of his or her own personal and social experiences. This
is in contrast to the traditional ideal of the objective, individualist
philosopher who relies solely on reason to attain knowledge, a picture that feminist philosophers claim only reﬂects men’s experience
or is wrapped up with male gender identity.
Moreover, like much of feminist philosophy, the goal of pragmatist theorizing is not to solve abstract philosophical problems but to
attain knowledge of a concrete, social reality and to focus on the
problems of actual experience. This knowledge and experience will
then direct political action and social change: theory and practice are
interrelated. Based on this experiential and practical foundation,
pragmatists hold, among other things, that there is a plurality of values and meanings, that human action can better the human condition,
and that there is a relationality between the experiencing subject and
the experienced object. All these elements parallel, or could be of
use to, the feminist philosophical enterprise. Future use of the pragmatist tradition for feminist philosophy will be contingent on showing how it did not, and need not, exclude women and their needs and
interests.
PREGNANCY. See REPRODUCTION, SEXUAL.
PRIVACY. There are three ways of categorizing the right to privacy.
The ﬁrst is that there is a fundamental right to physical privacy that

PROSTITUTION •

179

places limitations on governmental control over people and their
property. This general notion of privacy is not merely the privilege
of Western democracies but is more or less recognized globally. The
second is that there is a right to informational privacy. This has been
signiﬁcant for Western women, in particular, because it preserves the
conﬁdentiality of medical records of their reproductive histories.
The third category is decisional privacy. This is the liberty of the
individual to make and act on decisions without undue interference
from other individuals or the state. This third category of decisional
privacy underpins women’s rights to birth control and abortion in
the United States.
The actual concept of decisional privacy, however, has been the
subject of critical analysis by feminist philosophers because of its
foundation on an assumption of the division of social life into two
separate spheres: public and private. Historically the cultural and
conceptual association of women with the private sphere has served
to justify the exclusion of women from public life. See also FAMILY;
JUSTICE; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; PUBLIC/
PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
PROSTITUTION. The majority of feminists who have written on
prostitution have voiced disapproval of it and of other forms of sex
work. The central criticism of prostitution and other forms of sex
work is that they subordinate women: either directly through the explicit control of sex workers by their pimps, or indirectly through the
reinforcement of the cultural message that women should be available to men. Feminists point to the fact that sex work is rarely freely
chosen; it is instead a consequence of the wider problem of gender
discrimination in employment. This discrimination either keeps
women out of the workforce or keeps them from earning a living
wage.
Feminists do not just focus on the problem of prostitution within
Western societies. They also investigate the way that prostitution has
become a part of the tourist industry in some non-Western nations,
and they critique the role that Western societies play in the establishment and growth of this industry in other countries.
Some feminists argue that sex work can and should be framed
within a feminist context. They claim that sex work ﬁts a feminist

180 •

PSYCHOANALYTIC FEMINISM

model, as sex workers make a free choice to take up what can be
deﬁned as a skilled profession, and have far more autonomy within
this work than female workers in other professions. In response, it
can be argued that the level of freedom offered by sex work is not
recognized, because the sexual values of patriarchal society dictate
the monogamy of women, and thus exclude the possibility that sex
work can be an empowering or valid choice for women. This type of
analysis leads to the call for the legalization and formalization of sex
work as a way of protecting and enhancing women’s freedom of
choice. See also PORNOGRAPHY; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL
PHILOSOPHY.
PSYCHOANALYTIC FEMINISM. Psychoanalytic feminist theory
developed in the 1970s as an outgrowth of Sigmund Freud’s psychoanalytic theory. Freud (1856–1939) is considered the ‘‘father’’ of
psychoanalysis. In his 1905 work, Three Essays on the Theory of
Sexuality, he offers his (still controversial) theory of infant sexuality
in which he identiﬁes the different stages of psychosexual development, including the formation of the Oedipus complex.
The term psychoanalytic feminism covers a broad spectrum of positions, ranging from those of French feminist philosophers—such
as Luce Irigaray and Julia Kristeva—who have been inﬂuenced by
the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan’s radical reinterpretation of Freudian theory, to theorists who aim to develop Freudian theory itself for
use for feminist analysis. A typical approach of the latter group is to
focus on the pre-Oedipal stage of the Freudian framework of psychosexual development. They argue that it is during this stage that women’s socially assigned role as primary caretaker serves to construct
gender. Having identiﬁed this particular stage of the development of
the female psyche as the root cause of women’s oppression, psychoanalytic feminists offer different explanations of the relation of the
role of the mother to the construction of female gender identity.
Some psychoanalytic feminists place more of an emphasis on the
constructions of sexuality, and sexual relationships, that come out
of the mother-infant relations. Others offer a social object relations
theory: they examine the process of gender identiﬁcation in children
produced through the internalization of a child’s social relations to

PSYCHOANALYTIC FEMINISM •

181

his or her parents. Of these two approaches to Freudian theory, only
object relations theory has been of interest for feminist philosophers.
In essence, object relations theory states that the female child
never separates completely from the mother. Thus gender identity for
the female child is formed from connection to, and similarity with,
the mother and becomes identiﬁed with ‘‘female’’ characteristics
such as caring and the need for relationships. The male child achieves
separation from the mother both through a rejection or devaluation
of the ‘‘female’’ and through an identiﬁcation with a distant father.
Thus gender identity for men is bound up with, for example, autonomy and the suppression of these female characteristics.
Object relations theory has generated interest among feminist philosophers because of the way that the ideals of the male-dominated
philosophical tradition, such as objectivity (detached thought), can
be identiﬁed as the characteristics of male gender identity. Moreover,
in the traditional picture, philosophical knowledge is hindered by the
presence of ‘‘female’’ characteristics such as the emotions. Thus the
philosophical enterprise itself is not gender neutral; rather, it is masculine and excludes the feminine. In addition, feminist philosophers
have shown interest in psychoanalytic feminism because it recognizes relationality as a central aspect of human life and identiﬁes the
role of the family as a central institution for the maintenance of patriarchy.
On the whole, however, psychoanalytic feminism has been the target of criticism by feminist philosophers for two main reasons. First,
it is not seen by feminist philosophers as a true political philosophy.
Psychoanalytic feminism offers an analysis of women’s oppression
that is limited to the psychological realm. In so doing, it neglects factors outside the psychological, such as economic structures, that are
central components of any complete feminist analysis of women’s
oppression. Moreover, the strategies that can be offered by psychoanalytic feminism for the eradication of gender injustice remain limited to changing parent-infant relations: for example, through the
introduction of dual parenting. Some feminist philosophers argue
that this strategy is overly simplistic, as it fails to recognize the way
that women’s traditional role as primary caretaker supports patriarchy; this role serves to give men the freedom to spend more time in
the workplace and, therefore, contributes to the maintenance of male

182 •

PSYCHOLOGY, PHILOSOPHY OF

economic and social superiority. Thus psychoanalytic feminism has
explanatory strength in that it can give an analysis of gender formation, but it is not complete as a theory because it cannot offer any
incisive solutions for eliminating the oppressive construct of gender.
The second reason feminist philosophers tend to criticize psychoanalytic feminism is because of its foundation in Freudian theory itself. Freud holds that the lack of a penis in girls is the ultimate source
of psychological differences, and thus he holds that this lack or inferiority of female biology is the source of the inferiority of their psychological characteristics. This biological deterministic position
limits the possibility of women’s liberation and is antithetical to a
central feminist claim that psychological differences between the
sexes are the result of socialization. For these reasons, Freud’s conclusions about the female body and the female psyche appear to be
irretrievably misogynistic, and thus unsuitable for feminist revision.
PSYCHOLOGY, PHILOSOPHY OF. See MIND, PHILOSOPHY
OF.
PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION. The term public/private distinction refers to the conceptual and cultural division of social life into
the dichotomy of public and private spheres. The public is the sphere
of ownership and citizenship and is identiﬁed as the province of men.
The private is the sphere of the home and family and is identiﬁed as
the province of women. This type of organization of social life has a
long history, stretching at least as far back as the distinction between
the polis (city-state) and the oikos (household) in ancient Greece. The
speciﬁc conceptualization of this division that remains today has
been seen either as the product of the rise of capitalism or of the
hierarchical reason/emotion dichotomy of the Enlightenment. This
conceptualization has also been reinforced by biological determinism: the view that physiological differences between the sexes determine their different social and cultural roles.
Feminist theorists have not agreed on whether female liberation
can best be achieved through dissolving the split (advocated by socialist feminists), through its revaluing (advocated by cultural feminists), or through creating ways in which women can enter the public
sphere (advocated by liberal feminists). Feminist philosophers, on

RACE AND RACISM •

183

the whole, have tended to focus speciﬁcally on an analysis of the concept and its formulation. An analysis of the distinction shows that it
is normative, not descriptive, and thus serves to justify the separation
and exclusion of women from public life. This normativity is further
reinforced by the values that are drawn from this distinction: for example, that ‘‘good’’ women are naturally maternal. Feminist philosophers have also challenged the notion that the private sphere is truly
separate. They claim that the private sphere is not free of government
control of its organization and members; for example, most state and
federal laws in the United States make marriage an exclusively heterosexual institution. See also DUALISM; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; PRIVACY.
PYTHAGOREANISM. See ANCIENT GREEK PHILOSOPHY.

–R–
RACE AND RACISM. Many authorities now agree that race itself
does not exist as a natural kind; the view that there are common
physical characteristics that form natural separations among people
is false. Instead, like gender, race is a social construction. The categorizing of individuals into different racial groups is not value neutral; rather, race is about political domination through the creation of
‘‘superior’’ and ‘‘inferior’’ groups. The construction of race creates
systems of global socio-economic privilege for the dominant white
‘‘superior’’ group; it also creates an ideology that reinforces this privilege and produces a framework within which racialized social identities (and even an ontology of race) are formed.
The earliest philosophical discussions of race from the Western
tradition come from the eighteenth century. Although a few philosophers of this period, such as Comte de Buffon, hypothesized that skin
color was the result of climate, the dominant view was that people
could be divided into races by skin color, a characteristic that was
considered hereditary. During the nineteenth century, rather than just
marking racial differences, scientists attempted to produced a biologically grounded account of these differences. Despite the failure

184 •

RACE AND RACISM

of these attempts, the ideology that comes from the belief that there
are essential differences between the races remains.
Feminist philosophical work on race burgeoned in the 1980s.
Some feminist philosophers work in the areas of critical race theory,
focusing on showing that revision of laws can remove only the surface manifestations of white domination, because this domination is
written into the social, political, and economic framework itself. Others focus on giving analyses of what it means to talk about race, once
it has been established that it is not a genetic category.
The study of racism has been of importance to feminist theorists
because of its similarities with sexism. Racism, like sexism, is
grounded in the initial assumption that people can be categorized into
different groups based on a fundamental or essential set of shared
physical and psychological characteristics, and on the further assumption that these characteristics entail the physical and intellectual
superiority or inferiority of a particular group. Once these two assumptions are accepted as true, discrimination against a particular
group appears to be justiﬁed. Some feminist theorists claim that a
comparative analysis of the similarities of sexism and racism can
help identify the foundations, justiﬁcations, and effects common to
any system of oppression.
Despite the fact that an analysis of the similarities between racism
and sexism can illuminate the discrimination of women, feminist philosophers have tended to criticize this analysis. The comparison of
racism and sexism is grounded in the assumption that there is a universal, comparable experience of each system. This assumption is
not only a false essentialism but also serves to keep the two interlocking systems separate. This separation hides the way in which racism
has served to privilege white women economically and socially, and
the way in which white privilege means that white women are more
likely to achieve equality with (white) men. Furthermore, the separation of the systems has meant that, because of the intertwined nature
of racism and sexism, there is no theoretical space within which to
examine the particular oppressions that are experienced by women
of color.
Despite the recognition by many feminist philosophers that gender
is raced, only a few feminist philosophers work explicitly on race
and racism. There appear to be two main reasons for this. Feminist

RADICAL FEMINISM •

185

philosophers often concentrate on providing critiques and alternatives to an intellectual tradition that has largely ignored race, and
there is also a tendency to see work on race as the particular province
of feminists of color, a group underrepresented in academia. See also
BLACK FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY; COOPER, ANNA JULIA;
GOUGES, OLYMPE DE; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
RADICAL FEMINISM. Radical feminist thought originated in the
United States in the 1960s and became an identiﬁable feminist theory by the 1970s. Even though there has been radical feminist work
in both Europe and Latin America, it has been most closely associated with the feminist movement in the United States. Radical feminists not only identify patriarchy as the sole and universal cause of
women’s subordination but also hold that male domination is the
most wide-ranging and fundamental form of human oppression.
Radical feminists adopted the term patriarchy from the non-normative anthropological description of certain types of social organization. Beyond this single shared focus on the system of patriarchy,
there is no one theory that is radical feminism.
Given that patriarchy is identiﬁed as the cause of women’s subordination, the central commitment of radical feminism is an analysis
of male domination and strategies for women’s liberation from men.
For radical feminists, this male domination is so universal that it has
become almost invisible. Thus the goal of radical feminism is to unmask the different forms that women’s subordination to men can take
and to prescribe ways of overturning or resisting patriarchy. The subordination of women is typically attributed to male control of three
things: women’s reproductive capacities, women’s sexuality, and
the ideology of femininity.
In the case of women’s reproductive capacities, early radical feminists often argued that these biological differences are the root cause
of male dominance as, for example, they make women more vulnerable in terms of not being able to take care of their own physical needs
during pregnancy. For some radical feminists, the solution is for
women to take control of their bodies through the use of artiﬁcial
technologies. Others claim that women’s reproductive capacities are,
in themselves, the potential solution. They claim that, rather than

186 •

RADICAL FEMINISM

making women vulnerable, the ability to produce life is the source of
value and power.
In the case of women’s sexuality, radical feminists reject the patriarchal deﬁnition of women’s sexuality as being for men’s needs and
desires. One controversial strategy for resistance has been the rejection of heterosexuality outright and the championing of lesbianism
as the true expression of female sexuality.
For many radical feminists, one of the various ways that the construction of femininity serves to oppress women is the way that femininity is identiﬁed with women’s fulﬁllment of male-dictated sexual
and reproductive roles. Radical feminists therefore aim to resist femininity, for example, through the rejection of typical ideals of feminine beauty.
Radical feminists do not see all ‘‘women’s experiences’’ as negative or without value: women can create and produce their own positive and liberating experiences. Participation in, and creation of, what
is often termed as ‘‘womanculture’’ can also be a key to liberation.
Womanculture, in essence, is separated from the general culture of a
society, which radical feminists claim is nothing more than a guise
for male culture. Womanculture can be achieved in a variety of ways,
ranging from the creation of female-oriented religions, to cooperative women-owned business enterprises.
Feminist philosophical interest in radical feminism covers a wide
range of approaches. Some philosophers write as radical feminists,
the best-known being Mary Daly. Others examine standard philosophical ﬁelds such as epistemology and reality through a radical
feminist lens. There are also those who argue for the introduction of
new areas into the philosophical enterprise, such as lesbianism or the
construction of femininity. When radical feminist philosophy is interpreted loosely to mean a separation from the male, French feminism comes under its umbrella, due not only to its critique of the
maleness of the Western intellectual tradition but also to its creation
of ‘‘female’’ ways of thought and writing.
Some feminist philosophers have also offered a variety of critiques
of both the theoretical and the conceptual adequacy of radical feminist theory. Some have criticized the way that radical feminism is a
double-edged sword for the liberation of women. On the one hand, it
valorizes female qualities such as nurturing that comes out of their

RAND, AYN •

187

supposedly separate nature. On the other hand, this seems little different from the ideal ‘‘good’’ woman of the nineteenth century, a
woman who was simultaneously valued for her different womanly
characteristics and disempowered by them.
Radical feminist thought is generated by the experience of women,
rather than from any speciﬁc notion of social justice. Thus it offers
little that can be counted as thorough-going political theorizing.
Moreover, the political analyses that radical feminists offer of women’s subordination have been open to criticism. In particular, radical
feminist theorizing has been criticized for its dependency on a problematic claim that there is a universality of women’s experiences of
oppression and of womanhood. This universalism rests on what is
seen as the questionable assumption that all women have something
in common—a female nature—and thus radical feminism has been
criticized for its essentialism. For this reason, among others, it has
been claimed that radical feminist theorizing neglects the way that
class, race, and nationality affect women’s experiences of oppression. Thus, for its critics, radical feminism is politically problematic
and conceptually incoherent: there is no such thing as the ‘‘woman’’
identiﬁed by radical feminists to be liberated.
RAND, AYN (1905–1982). Philosopher and novelist Ayn Rand was
born Alice Rosenbaum in St. Petersburg, Russia; she emigrated to the
United States in 1926 and worked as a screenwriter in Hollywood.
Rand’s philosophy—Objectivism—is presented not only in essay
form but also in her novels The Fountainhead (1943) and Atlas
Shrugged (1957). For Rand, art was a method of communicating
moral ideals; indeed, she was critical of academic philosophy, holding instead that philosophy should be written to inform the lay person. Central to Rand’s Objectivist philosophy is the notion of the
rational self-interest of the individual, and she valorizes the creative,
productive, free-thinking individual focused on her or his own happiness. For Rand, the free market of capitalism is the only political system that can allow for the personal development and success of this
individual.
Rand is a highly controversial ﬁgure for feminist philosophy; indeed, many Objectivists reject the validity of feminism. Certainly
Objectivism’s commitment to capitalism, individualism, and an ex-

188 •

RATIONALITY

treme rationalism would seem to place a gulf between Rand’s philosophy and feminism. However, some commentators have considered
the possibilities of whether Rand’s philosophy can be a part of feminist discussion, rather than merely a target of criticism. For example,
Rand’s philosophy may be seen as compatible with a type of feminism that has its roots in the nineteenth-century women’s movement
for equality of rights, one that points to the restrictive nature of government as the real ‘‘enemy’’ of women (rather than capitalism or
men). Moreover, in her novels, Rand depicts women as autonomous,
self-assertive individuals—with her philosophy providing the moral
justiﬁcation for such behavior—thus offering a fruitful counterimage to the self-sacriﬁcing behavior traditionally expected of
women.
RATIONALITY. See REASON.
RAWLS, JOHN. See CONTRACTARIANISM.
REALITY. See METAPHYSICS.
REASON. Although there has not been agreement on its speciﬁc role
in philosophizing, or its particular characteristics, reason lies at the
heart of Western philosophical thinking. Traditionally it has been
considered the faculty through which knowledge is acquired and
moral judgments are made.
Historically women have not been associated with the full possession of reason as traditionally conceived, or they have been prevented
from exercising this faculty. Philosophers in the Western tradition
have typically held that reason is a universal human faculty, yet
many have simultaneously maintained, implicitly or explicitly, that
there are degrees of rationality based on gender and race. Aristotle
offers the most explicit setting out of this way of thinking, arguing
that women possess the capacity for rationality but without ‘‘authority’’: their judgments have no standing or cannot be relied on. Women
were also literally excluded from reason in the sense that they were
barred from the physical sites of the development and exercise of reason, such as universities. For these reasons, early feminist philosophers, such as Mary Astell and Mary Wollstonecraft, tended to

REASON •

189

focus on women’s equal capacity to reason. They held that the existence of an equal capacity for reason would support claims for the
equal education for women as well as for their civil, economic, and
political equality.
An examination of reason is still a major component of current
feminist philosophy. However, unlike their predecessors, they are not
responding to sexist claims about the lack of rationality in women.
Instead, the role that reason plays in philosophical theorizing is now
the object of intensive scrutiny. Feminist philosophers are now examining, among other things, the moral ideals that valorize reason, and
the philosophical methodologies and practices that are grounded in
traditional notions of rationality. Feminist critics of reason do not
constitute an identiﬁable group; they can come from both the analytic and the Continental schools of thought, and can be engaged in
work, for example, on canon critique, epistemology, philosophy of
science, or philosophy of language.
The central feminist criticism is that reason—within the philosophical tradition—has covertly been identiﬁed with ‘‘maleness’’ and
thus is only superﬁcially gender neutral. The central target of this
type of criticism is the binary opposition, prevalent in the Western
philosophical tradition, of reason and emotion, or reason and body.
Not only is the category of emotion/body opposite to reason, but for
some philosophers in the tradition, it is a hindrance to reason and
thus the attainment of knowledge. Given that women are culturally
associated with the body, this dualistic framework means that
women are excluded from the realm of reason. This exclusion can be
literal, as when a philosopher declares that women’s bodies or emotions make them unﬁt for reason, or metaphorical, through the representation of the body and emotion as feminine. Feminist criticism of
reason often involves the examination of speciﬁc philosophers from
the canon, especially René Descartes, given his position in the history of reason. This is not to say, however, that all feminist work on
canonical philosophers is solely critical; some examines canonical
philosophers as a potential resource for feminist philosophical work
on reason.
One important approach to the critique of the traditional concept
of reason has been inﬂuenced by French feminist philosophy. This
approach examines the symbols and metaphors associated with rea-

190 •

RELATIVISM

son, as well as the concepts, such as emotion or the body, that are
framed as its opposites. In examining the meanings of these symbols
and metaphors, and the way they function, these philosophers aim to
demonstrate how the variety of philosophical conceptions of reason
all rely in some way on the devaluation, control, or transcendence of
the ‘‘feminine.’’
Anglo-American analytic approaches have also inﬂuenced feminist philosophical analyses of reason. One central strand is the revaluation of the aspects of human life, such as emotion and desire, that
have been devalued in the traditional dualism of reason and the passions. Another important strand is the examination of the connections
between the ideal of rationality and the social construction of ‘‘maleness’’ in the light of recent analyses of gender categories. See also
IRIGARAY, LUCE; OBJECTIVITY; SUBJECTIVITY.
RELATIVISM. The philosophical position of relativism not only precludes but denies the possibility of uncovering objective and universal truths that are independent of a human understanding or
perspective; indeed, relativism and universalism have traditionally
been framed as mutually exclusive opposites.
There have been two intertwined feminist analyses of the question
of relativism: a conceptual analysis, and an examination of its political implications. A conceptual analysis of the traditional picture of
knowledge shows that it speciﬁcally and explicitly precludes relativism. In this picture, individuals attain knowledge through the use of
reason, the universal characteristic of humans. The knowledge attained by the individual knower is not relative to that individual; it is
available to others through the use of their reason. This interchangeability of knowers ensures the universality and objectivity of knowledge. Moreover, the assumption that these knowers are capable of
discovering the true nature of reality adds further insurance against a
vulnerability to relativism. This traditional picture of knowledge has
been the target of criticisms that have ranged from the more radical
critique of universalism by postmodern feminists, to claims that the
ideals of the traditional picture reﬂect only the experiences of a particular subset of humanity: middle-class Western males.
However, the critique of the universalism of the traditional picture
of knowledge does not mean that feminist philosophy is committed

RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY OF •

191

to an untenable relativism. The universalism/relativism dichotomy itself has been questioned, and thus the standard conceptualizations of
the philosophical position of relativism have also been brought into
question. Some feminist philosophers have maintained that a sophisticated position of epistemological relativism can have important political strengths. It can be claimed that truth is relative to a particular
group (such as a particular grouping of women), and that the truths
of the group’s experiences can be discovered by employing traditional ideals and procedures, such as impartial examination of empirical evidence. In this way a relativist view of truth need not fall
into a problematic subjectivism. However, it does not close off the
possibility that some truths are universal; for example, the falsity of
sexist stereotypes is not something that would be described as relative. A feminist relativism of this kind allows a political recognition
of the truths of different women’s lives and offers a way of examining the supposed facts about the world that are in tension with their
experiences.
Feminist philosophical discussions of relativism have focused not
only on facts but also on values: moral truths. Some varieties of feminist ethics hold that moral knowledge is not abstract and objective
but contextual and concrete. This then means that there is no one
moral knowledge; rather, there are different moral perspectives generated by different experiences. In this view, there is no reason to
suppose that these different perspectives cannot work together productively, nor that, in the absence of a monolithic and universal morality, there cannot be any criteria for judging among different moral
actions and choices. Indeed, the ability to apply different moral
knowledges to different situations may offer a more ﬂexible and
ﬁner-grained analysis than universally applicable abstract rules or
formulas.
RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY OF. Feminist theology, as a general
ﬁeld, is burgeoning. The speciﬁc ﬁeld of philosophy of religion,
however, is a marginal one in philosophy within the Christian tradition, and there is hardly any work being done within the Judaic and
Islamic traditions. A few philosophers of religion may be politically
feminist, but their philosophical work does not typically reﬂect this.
This neglect is explained by a variety of reasons. First, the work

192 •

RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY OF

of feminist philosophers of religion tends to be categorized as purely
theology or religious studies. This marginalization reﬂects the status
of early feminist philosophy in general before it became established
as a ﬁeld in its own right. Second, the philosophy of religion is perceived as male biased. It has historically been dominated by men,
and the religious texts and theology that form part of its foundations
are seen as misogynist. This male bias is not recognized by mainstream philosophers, as it appears that the standard philosophical issues, such as the existence of God, appear to be gender neutral.
However, following the innovative post-Christian work of Mary
Daly, feminist philosophers have claimed that the traditional concept
of a transcendent male God—a being who is separate from nature—is a concept of a being with ‘‘power over,’’ a relationship that
is replayed and reafﬁrmed in patriarchal society. Finally, the philosophy of religion as a speciﬁc ﬁeld is seen as fundamentally Eurocentric.
Feminist critiques of the philosophy of religion tend to focus on
critiquing its acceptance of the traditional division of spirit and body,
in which the latter is seen as the source of hindrance to or disruption
of human spirituality. Within the Christian tradition, women have
been culturally associated with lust, carnality, and other sins of the
ﬂesh. Moreover, the Christian philosophical tradition accepted the
Aristotelian account of reproduction, in which women are passive
vessels for reception of a male-made soul: their central function is
biological. In these ways, women have been excluded from the spiritual life.
The little feminist work that has been done on the revision of the
ﬁeld of philosophy of religion rarely engages with the traditional
questions about religion. The most radical of these revisions are proposals for a goddess-centered religion, one that invokes the power of
the symbol of ‘‘goddess.’’ The symbol of the goddess allows women
to move outside the traditional religious paradigms that have required
the obedience of women to men and to a patriarchal divine ruler. The
goddess also functions as a symbol of the power of women and as a
revaluing of women’s association with the physical, speciﬁcally their
connections with life giving and nurturing. Moreover, as the symbol
of the goddess usually draws on ancient global traditions, it provides

REPRODUCTION, SEXUAL •

193

an alternative to Western religion. In these ways, a feminine religion
can be part of a feminist struggle: it is political action.
However, feminist philosophy of religion does not often move outside the traditional framework to develop an alternative religion;
rather, philosophers of religion aim toward revision of the elements,
such as the notion of spirituality, of a particular religious tradition. A
traditional notion has been that the spiritual life is one of asceticism
and prayer. A revision proposed by Toinette M. Eugene is that the
transcendent nature of spirituality should be seen as potentially liberating. The spiritual life would be seen as one of freedom and an understanding of human unity. The relationship with God would be one
of friendship, rather than a power relation with a father or ruler. Thus
this account forms an alternative paradigm for relationships among
humans. See also AQUINAS, THOMAS; AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO.
REPRODUCTION, SEXUAL. Prior to the rise of feminist philosophy
in the 1970s, little feminist philosophical work dealt explicitly with
procreative issues; rather, feminist philosophers tended to focus on
the effects of child-bearing on women. The one exception is Emma
Goldman, whose belief that female political liberation required sexual liberation led her to argue for the dissemination of birth control
information in her 1916 essay ‘‘The Social Aspects of Birth Control.’’
For contemporary feminists, procreative issues cover a wide range:
in particular, contraception, abortion, surrogacy, genetic testing,
new reproductive technologies, and population control. A central
question is whether reproductive technologies and interventions
serve to liberate or oppress women. The answers vary depending on
the type of feminist political analysis that is employed. Liberal feminists typically support the development of technologies and interventions that increase women’s reproductive choices. Socialist feminists
tend to argue that reproductive freedom is best produced by a restructuring of the institutions of the social and business worlds, rather than
through the development of high-tech interventions that are available
only to the few who can afford them. Some feminists, Angela Davis
in particular, have emphasized the need to examine procreative issues
through the lenses of race and class, stressing the historical connec-

194 •

RIGHTS

tions of the birth control movement to the eugenics movement, and
pointing to the sterilization abuse of women of color.
From the early beginnings of radical feminism, the debate over
procreative issues has focused on whether reproduction itself is the
key to women’s liberation or oppression. Some radical feminists
claim that liberation from reproduction would be liberation from patriarchal control. Others argue that artiﬁcial reproductive technologies will serve to reduce still further the ‘‘usefulness’’ of women in
patriarchal society. Some radical feminists, who also see reproduction as connected in some way to women’s social value, may instead
argue that reproduction can be a positive source of women’s power
and value in an otherwise male-dominated society. See also BEAUVOIR, SIMONE DE; ESSENTIALISM; FAMILY; MATERNAL
ETHICS; MOTHERHOOD; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; PRIVACY.
RIGHTS. The call for the equal rights of women has been a central
part of the feminist movement. Given that the capacity for reason
was the speciﬁc human characteristic that endowed rights, feminist
philosophers of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries typically
aimed to show women’s equal intellectual capacities in order to
argue for equality in civil rights, such as the rights to vote and own
property. The development of the second wave of feminism in the
1960s and 1970s was spurred, in part, by the recognition that—even
though American and European women had achieved equal civil
rights—the goal of full equality for women had not been achieved.
One of the characteristics of feminism of this era was, therefore, the
view that equal rights could be attained through reform of those policies and laws that were discriminatory.
Feminist philosophers have recently begun to question the usefulness of the concept of rights for social justice. On the whole, this
has been a concern only for feminists in the United States, given its
particular constitution and legal system. This concern, however, is
not necessarily shared by all U.S. feminist philosophers. Some U.S.
feminist philosophers of color, and some Third World feminists
working in the United States, have argued for a need for the rhetorical
and political power of rights talk.
One line of questioning that has grown out of the ethics of care

ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES •

195

focuses on the moral issues related to rights. The ethics of care forms
both a criticism of and alternative to the dominant moral tradition
that views moral agents as impartial, autonomous, and abstract individuals. The typical goals of the traditional moral project are to
direct the actions of these individuals and, through the device of
rights, protect these individuals from the harmful actions of others.
Thus rights holders in the traditional picture are isolated individuals
who require protection from potential conﬂict with other individuals.
In contrast, the ethics of care is based on and responsive to the connections and relations between contextualized moral agents. In this
picture, the traditional notion of rights is inadequate to deal with the
interactions and relationships of these agents.
A second line of questioning of the usefulness of rights discourse
comes from the claim that the concept of rights reﬂects only male
experience. Rights discourse applies best to interactions among
strangers in the traditionally male public sphere, whereas women
have traditionally been conﬁned to the domestic sphere, and to interactions with a small group of related others. The practical result of
this conceptualization is that women have few real rights to protect
them from known (or unknown) others in the home or in the family.
Moreover, it can be argued that legal rights, far from creating equality, serve to reinforce patriarchy. The assumption is that before the
law all persons are equal. This ‘‘formal’’ equality also assumes that
all persons are the same; however, the resulting gender-neutral legal
rights may produce discriminatory results for women, in particular in
their marital, family, or reproductive rights.
These criticisms need not entail a denial of the usefulness of rights.
Instead, these criticisms are often seen as the initial step toward a
reframing of rights as pragmatic, contextualized strategies to produce
liberation and social justice. See also ABORTION; ANIMAL ETHICS; INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT; LIBERAL FEMINISM; POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY; PRIVACY; PUBLIC/
PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES (1712–1778). The philosopher, essayist, and novelist Jean-Jacques Rousseau was born in Geneva. He
was one of the premier intellectuals of the eighteenth-century French
Enlightenment. His ﬁrst publication was the 1750 essay Discourse

196 •

ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES

on the Sciences and Arts. Rousseau wrote novels, operas, and autobiographical works; however, he is best known for his moral and political philosophy, his most famous work being The Social Contract
(1762). Central to Rousseau’s moral and political philosophy is the
opposition he sees between the corruption of contemporary society
and the true—morally good—nature of man. Much of his philosophical work is then devoted to theorizing about the type of morally true
political system and education that can provide an antidote to this
corruption of man’s nature in the modern age.
Rousseau’s speciﬁc discussions of women and the private sphere
have been of interest to present-day feminist philosophers; this is despite the inherent sexism in Rousseau’s discussions of women and
their role in civil society. Feminist philosophers have been interested
in his work because his political philosophy offers an analysis of the
family and the role of women that locates these two things as central
elements of civil society. Rousseau’s analysis is also of historical interest because these spheres had been neglected by most other political philosophers of the modern period.
Much of feminist interpretation to date has focused on identifying
the ways in which Rousseau produced an early political philosophy
that raises questions and issues still present in current feminist philosophy, and on considering the potential for appropriation of Rousseau’s work. As yet, there has not been much actual appropriation of
Rousseau’s political thought for feminist political philosophy. Rousseau’s main writings covering the areas of women and the family are
Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloı̈se, Lettre à M. d’Alembert, and Émile.
These have been the main focus of feminist philosophical analysis,
with Émile as the central text.
The reception of Rousseau’s work by his female or feminist contemporaries was mixed. Rousseau was sharply criticized by the eighteenth-century feminist philosopher Mary Wollstonecraft for the
way that his sex complementarian views promoted and justiﬁed the
subordination of women. However, many of his female contemporaries, such as Madame de Staël, also found his sex complementarian
ideals for feminine behavior and social roles to be empowering.
Women of the upper social classes at that time typically left their
children to the care of servants and tutors, whereas Rousseau’s philosophy emphasized the social necessity of the traditional female role

ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES •

197

of child-rearing. For Rousseau’s female followers, this not only made
their lives more ‘‘natural’’ but gave them a social value that was theirs
by virtue of their sex.
The Lettre à M. d’Alembert is a public letter criticizing Jean le
Rond d’Alembert, the editor of l’Encyclopédie, for his suggestion
that there should be a theatre in Geneva. Among the central reasons
Rousseau gives for the morally deleterious effect a theatre would
have on the Genevan citizens is the claim that a theatre would encourage a desire for ﬁnery and competition among the female audience.
Rousseau claimed that this sort of behavior would distract them from
their duties to their family life. The connection that Rousseau makes
between the virtues, behavior, and roles of women and the morality—or lack thereof—of society is a central theme in his philosophy
of women.
In Émile, ostensibly a work on education, Rousseau gives the most
fully developed account of his philosophy of women. Rousseau hypothesizes the form of education necessary for the boy Émile, the
primary subject of the work, to develop according to his nature, free
of the corrupting inﬂuences of society. The perfect helpmate for
Émile is his female counterpart, the ‘‘natural’’ woman Sophy. The
two sexes are seen as different but complementary, and through marriage they form a whole. While Rousseau is eager to show Émile’s
true nature free of societal inﬂuence, he accepts many of the stereotypical notions of women prevalent at that time. Thus Sophy’s education is to be directed toward the development of what Rousseau
perceives as her natural docility and her natural function of being
pleasing to men.
The philosophical roots of Rousseau’s views of the different ‘‘natures’’ of men and women, and his endorsement of sex complementarity, are clear in his earlier work on political philosophy, Discourse
on the Origin of Inequality (1755). In Rousseau’s hypothetical picture of the early stage of the development of humans, both men and
women are initially isolated and equal beings. Independent of others,
these pre-social individuals are free of the problematic egoism and
competition that are the natural consequences of the civilized society
Rousseau wishes to criticize. Rousseau identiﬁes a stage in humanity’s hypothetical development that lies between these two extremes:
the nuclear ‘‘sentimental’’ family. For Rousseau, this social grouping

198 •

ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES

of humans will play a central role in producing a cooperative, nonegoistic, civil society.
For feminist philosophers, the problem with the hypothetical development of the nuclear family from individuals who were initially
equal and independent is that it is seen by Rousseau to require the
sexual division of labor. Moreover, even though Rousseau’s view of
‘‘natural’’ woman is often left unclear, apparently this social stage of
human development is ‘‘natural’’ to women, not the initial truly presocial stage. Thus it is ambiguous whether the societal roles for
women identiﬁed by Rousseau are derived purely from women’s
‘‘nature,’’ or whether they are also derived from the perceived needs
of civil society. If the latter is indeed the case, then Rousseau’s philosophical vision of the good civil society cannot be achieved without
the subordination of women.
On the surface, therefore, Rousseau’s views of the ‘‘natural’’ for
women appear problematic for the feminist reader. Rousseau’s sex
complementarianism not only clearly dictates the proper roles for
women, but its foundational role for civil society entails that women
must not break out of these roles. However, it would be a mistake to
assume that these clearly delineated roles for women are generated
purely by sexist thinking. Rousseau argues that the differences between the sexes are so radical that it makes little sense to ask if one
is superior or equal to the other. Moreover, even though the role of
women is restrictive, it is consistent with Rousseau’s critique of the
liberal view that champions the freedom of individuals to pursue
their own (egoistic) interests.
Despite the problematic conclusions drawn by Rousseau about the
‘‘natural’’ roles of the two sexes, Rousseau’s aim to create roles that
were the product of nature, not society, is a shared goal with the
feminist enterprise. Again, despite Rousseau’s introduction of a
problematic sexual division of labor, the political importance of the
family unit—rather than the individual—for society in general is another shared area of interest. For some feminist political philosophers, the traditional notion of the political subject—one who is an
isolated, abstract individual—needs to be replaced by an understanding that individuals are interconnected. This more contextualized approach gives priority to the protection of the relationships among
individuals, rather than the protection of unconnected individuals

SARTRE, JEAN-PAUL •

199

from each other. This type of approach can then lead to the family
becoming the political unit for which political arrangements are
made. Finally, Rousseau depicts his heroines Sophy and Julie as suffering precisely because they embody his ideals of the good woman.
This has provided feminist philosophers with ammunition against
such ideals of femininity, and has led some philosophers to question
whether Rousseau was aware on some level of the fragile underpinning of his political system. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF;
CONTRACTARIANISM; ESSENTIALISM.
RUDDICK, SARA. See MATERNAL ETHICS.

–S–
SARTRE, JEAN-PAUL (1905–1980). French philosopher Jean-Paul
Sartre is a central ﬁgure in existentialist philosophy. Sartre studied
at the École Normale Supérieure and then began a career as a philosophy teacher. He wrote philosophical novels and plays as well as academic works; eventually he left teaching to became an author fulltime. His earlier work, for which he is best known, contains an examination of the concept of human freedom. For Sartre, freedom is understood against, and begins from, the background of our individual
situation. The pivotal work from this period is L’Être et le Néant
(Being and Nothingness), published in French in 1943. His later
works focused on social responsibility.
Thus far, little work has identiﬁed Sartre’s philosophy as a resource for feminist philosophy. The three central reasons for this are
his intellectual relationship with Simone de Beauvoir, the apparent
sexism in his work, and the competing inﬂuences of other French
philosophers. It is possible that, in an effort to include Beauvoir in
the philosophical canon, it has been necessary to deemphasize Sartre’s philosophical contributions, despite such prominent works as
Being and Nothingness, in order to assert Beauvoir’s originality in
her foundational text for feminist thought: The Second Sex (1949).
Feminist work on Sartre is often, but not exclusively, grounded in
an initial consideration of the relationship of his work to that of
Beauvoir. Earlier work on Sartre tended just to ask how much his

200 •

SCHURMAN, ANNA MARIA VAN

philosophy was inﬂuenced by hers; the most recent work examines
whether his versions of the notion of freedom—and objectiﬁcation
through ‘‘the look’’—may ultimately offer more for feminist philosophy because of their greater complexity. The charge of sexism leveled against Sartre often relies on his use of women as illustrative
examples for his critical examination of certain types of negative behavior, in particular self-deception. The ﬁnal reason that can be identiﬁed for the neglect of Sartre is the fruitfulness for feminist
philosophy of French philosophers such as Michel Foucault and
Jacques Derrida, who explicitly rejected Sartre’s thought because
of its modernist elements.
SCHURMAN, ANNA MARIA VAN (1607–1679). Anna Maria van
Schurman was born of Dutch parentage in Germany. She was given
a home education that was grounded in the classics, and she became
known throughout Europe for her learning. Van Schurman was in
contact with other feminist philosophers of the time, including Marie
de Gournay and Bathsua Pell Makin, and it would appear that she
inﬂuenced the work of the latter.
Van Schurman wrote on a range of philosophical and non-philosophical topics. Her 1641 work De ingenii muliebris ad doctrinam et
meliores litteras aptitudine (published in English in 1659 as The
Learned Maid; or, Whether a Maid May Be a Scholar) was well
known in its time. Van Schurman’s argument for the education of
women is composed of a series of syllogisms designed to prove the
proposition that ‘‘a maid may be a scholar’’ and to reply to potential
objections to this proposition. Van Schurman anticipates Virginia
Woolf in her claim that, in order to study, women need sufﬁcient
money and time.
SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY OF. Given that throughout the history of
philosophy, science and philosophy have inﬂuenced and informed
each other, the philosophy of science is a signiﬁcant ﬁeld for feminist
philosophers. Feminist philosophers have expanded the boundaries of
the subject area of philosophy of science, in particular by incorporating some of the more general feminist criticisms of science; these
general criticisms challenge both the exclusion of women from science and the gender bias in scientiﬁc ideals and methodology.

SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY OF •

201

Women have not always been excluded from the study of science,
either literally or metaphorically. One strand of thinking in early
modern culture symbolized science as a woman; this image faded
away during the eighteenth century. This symbolism brought with it
the association of women leading the male scientist to truth and
knowledge. The notion of the ‘‘scientiﬁc lady’’ developed during the
scientiﬁc revolution, and noble women of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were often encouraged to know something of science. Despite this, no feminist philosophers prior to the late twentieth
century could, strictly speaking, be called philosophers of science; a
rare few could be considered as offering some kind of feminist science: Anne Finch Conway, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and Antoinette Brown Blackwell.
Feminist philosophers began to question the sciences and technology in the late 1970s. The main thrust of their criticism is that science
has traditionally been based on the experience of men and has focused on the needs of men. Thus science is not value neutral but
rather contains biases against, or entails the exclusion of, women.
While earlier criticisms tended to focus on the ‘‘softer’’ social sciences, more recent criticisms have also been made of ‘‘harder’’ natural science.
Feminist philosophers tend to connect epistemology with feminist
philosophy of science; they do not view them as two separate ﬁelds
within philosophical inquiry. Feminist philosophy of science, like
feminist epistemology, is engaged in examining how gender does
and should affect knowledge, in particular in our practices of inquiry
and justiﬁcation. Feminist discussions of science and philosophy of
science also follow patterns of critique and revision similar to those
of epistemology: there is a feminist critique of androcentric bias in
science and the philosophy of science, as well as attempts to develop
a speciﬁcally feminist philosophy of science.
Feminist philosophers vary in their criticisms of the androcentric
bias in science. The majority of work thus far falls under the umbrella
of analytic philosophy. On the most basic level, it is claimed that
this bias comes from the fact that science is primarily done by men.
The dominance of men in the sciences has been seen to lead to biases
not only in which areas are considered important to pursue, but also
in the design of scientiﬁc experiments and the interpretation of their

202 •

SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY OF

results. This criticism is typically made of scientiﬁc ﬁelds that have
humans as the focus of their study, such as the social sciences. The
work of Carol Gilligan in the ﬁeld of psychology is often cited as
an example of this type of criticism; in addition, Gilligan’s work is
seen as offering possibilities for the elimination of such biases.
However, even the hard sciences, as well as the ideals of scientiﬁc
theorizing, have been criticized for their androcentric bias. This criticism can draw on object relations theory or on feminist studies of
the history and philosophy of science. The latter type of criticism
argues that the enterprise of science is not conducted free of its social
and political context. The criteria that scientists use to chose one theory over another, for example, reﬂect our cultural framework; indeed,
even scientiﬁc ‘‘facts’’ are hard to separate from the values of Western culture. Object relations theory points to the way that scientiﬁc
ideals of objectivity and rationality reﬂect (white Western) males’
gender ideals of emotional detachment, objectivity, and control.
The language, metaphors, and symbols of scientiﬁc discourse
have also been the focus of feminist attention. Indeed, scientiﬁc theories themselves are read as ‘‘texts’’ or ‘‘narratives’’ in order to tease
out their covert biases and ideologies. Since the scientiﬁc revolution,
science is often depicted by male philosophers and scientists as symbolically male; part of its goal is to ‘‘penetrate’’ the mysteries of a
symbolically female nature or to control and manipulate that nature.
Luce Irigaray argues that the gender bias of science has its roots in
the ‘‘male’’ language of science itself, as this language is grounded
in symbolically male logical relations, such as disjunction or conjunction. Within this patriarchal language, the symbolically female
relations of, for example, reciprocity or ﬂuidity are not logical relations, and thus are not part of scientiﬁc discourse. Irigaray argues that
these types of female-identiﬁed relations can only ﬁnd expression in
a differently sexed language: a feminine language and writing. The
creation of this language works to resist male scientiﬁc discourse.
Feminist philosophy of science is also a reconstructive project
aimed at deﬁning, and ultimately producing, a feminist science, and
much of the current work is being done in this area. The aim of this
project is not to create some kind of new science, but rather one that
avoids the failures of the traditional model of science while working
for social change. There has been some work in developing ‘‘femi-

SECOND SEX, THE •

203

nine’’ methodologies that reﬂect ‘‘feminine’’ cognitive styles; thus,
for example, scientiﬁc research methods could include intuition or
some kind of emotional connection with the subject matter. For some
philosophers, the move from the Newtonian paradigm in twentiethcentury science to the more contextual and relational way of thinking
in quantum physics reﬂects a feminine way of thinking. Another
strand in this reconstructive project has been to include overtly feminist politics in the philosophy of science and the scientiﬁc enterprise.
It has been asked, for example, whether a politically grounded and
motivated approach, despite being in tension with traditional notions
of scientiﬁc inquiry, could lead to more reliable hypotheses about the
natural and the social world. See also BACON, FRANCIS.
SECOND SEX, THE (LE DEUXIÈME SEXE). Originally published
in 1949, French philosopher Simone de Beauvoir’s The Second Sex
is heralded for setting the framework within which contemporary
feminist theorizing has taken place. Beauvoir’s work is also recognized for its inﬂuence on the actual lives of women. The Second Sex
offers a comprehensive demonstration and analysis of the historical
and contemporary oppression of women, explanations of how this
oppression is produced, and recommendations for women’s liberation. Beauvoir’s central theoretical concepts employed for this analysis are her claims that femininity is socially constructed and that
women are constructed as ‘‘Other’’: the second sex.
The Second Sex is divided into seven parts, each part offering an
analysis of a particular aspect of women’s oppression. In the ﬁrst
part, Beauvoir critiques the explanations of women’s condition offered by biology, psychoanalysis, and Marxism. For Beauvoir, biology can identify physical differences between the sexes; however,
she argues that this does not provide an adequate explanation for the
social values placed on these differences: why woman is Other. In
the case of Sigmund Freud’s psychoanalytic explanations, the condition of women is grounded in the differences between male and
female sexuality, in particular in women’s lack of male sexual characteristics. For Beauvoir, this explanation is too simplistic; the
greater social power of men cannot be due to their sexuality alone.
Finally, Beauvoir counters Friedrich Engels’s claim that the dismantling of capitalism will automatically raise the status of women. She

204 •

SECOND SEX, THE

argues that capital would not have led to the othering of women if the
desire for domination did not exist ﬁrst.
In the second part of the book, Beauvoir traces the history of sexual hierarchy, starting with its origins in primitive forms of human
society. In primitive societies, men were active subjects, working to
support the group, both as inventors and warriors. As both creator
and risk taker, man had reasons for being; as risk taker, he had an
end more valuable than preserving his own life. In these ways, man
differentiated himself from, and raised himself above, animals.
Women, however, could not participate properly in these activities,
as they were incapacitated by the physical demands of reproduction.
Moreover, reproduction only produces life; it does not actively risk
it. Thus the life of women became more closely connected to animal
life.
In these early nomadic groups, women were simply materially disadvantaged; Beauvoir claims that it was during the following period
of early agricultural communities that the oppression of women became established. In moving from a nomadic existence to a life supported by agriculture, man became dependent on nature, and in
these early communities, men believed that the success of the harvest
had magical connections with the reproductive power of women. In
this way, women and nature became symbolically connected; moreover, both were necessary for the material and social needs of men.
However, women and nature were also now something man needed
to control in order to lose his dependence on them; man needed to
assert himself as independent subject, and he achieved this through
the framing of nature—and thus woman—as Other. Beauvoir claims
that a central part of this shift toward control of earth-woman was the
concept of property; with the ownership of land, men began to need
to own women and children who could work and inherit the land.
Beauvoir claims that the notion of Other is a fundamental category
of human thought, such as sun/moon, day/night, and so on. She argues that for a group to be or identify as the One—to form a sense
of self—it needs the Other to deﬁne itself against. For each group
there is no one permanently designated Other, except in the case of
women, who are the historically ﬁxed Other. Thus, in the relation
between male and female, men are constructed as the positive norm;

SECOND SEX, THE •

205

they are deﬁned against women, who are then constructed as the negative or second sex.
Here Beauvoir relies on G. W. F. Hegel’s concept of the masterslave dialectic for her analysis, substituting the terms Subject and
Other for master and slave. Like the Hegelian master, man is the absolute human type; like the Hegelian slave, woman is measured
against this standard and is found wanting. For Beauvoir, the ﬁrst moment of the development of the relations between men and women
in primitive society—risk taker versus passive reproducer—is at the
foundation of women’s subordination. She argues that it is reproduction that makes women, if not exactly slaves, the possessors of a slave
consciousness produced by their relationship with men. Thus, for
her, it is ultimately reproduction that is the central hindrance to women’s liberation.
This notion of a woman as constructed Other provided the framework for the most inﬂuential second wave feminist theorizing in the
United Kingdom and the United States, such as that of Betty Friedan,
Kate Millett, and Shulamith Firestone. Woman as constructed Other
is also at the heart of the linguistic and cultural analyses of sexual
difference within French feminist thought, such as that of Luce Irigaray, that began to emerge in the 1970s.
In the third part of The Second Sex, Beauvoir demonstrates how
part of the domination of women is produced through controlling
myths and images of the ideal woman. Ultimately, the ideal woman
in all her different guises is the woman who sacriﬁces her own self
for the self of the man. Beauvoir explains that the reason women do
not resist this controlling image of the feminine ideal is they have
learned to internalize it: women as well as men accept that this ideal
deﬁnes woman.
In parts four to six, Beauvoir offers a detailed analysis of the life
of the contemporary woman from childhood to old age. This analysis
is aimed at demonstrating her famous dictum at the beginning of part
four: ‘‘One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.’’ Her discussions of the different aspects of the social construct of femininity
have been central to subsequent feminist thought on childhood, marriage, and motherhood.
In her discussion of childhood, Beauvoir shows how the internalization of femininity, and thus the acceptance and internalization of

206 •

SECOND SEX, THE

inferiority, is part of the passage to adulthood for young girls. The
identiﬁcation of the forms of this internalization, and the way that
internalization works both to control women and to block their political awakening, were central tenets of the feminist theorizing of the
1960s and 1970s.
For Beauvoir, becoming a woman is not simply a question of age
or maturity, but a more literal ‘‘becoming’’: a construction. Beauvoir
thus sets the framework for the use of the distinction between sex and
gender that has been pivotal for feminist thought. From the 1960s
onward, feminists have argued that biological differences between
the sexes are ﬁxed, but that the psychological differences used to justify the inequality of women are not natural: they are the product of
gender socialization. In the 1980s, the sex/gender debate shifted
toward a discussion of whether the concept of woman has an essential meaning, and Beauvoir’s claim that there is no such thing as
‘‘woman’’ can be seen to underpin this debate as well.
For Beauvoir, women’s Otherness is further reinforced through the
institutions of marriage and motherhood. She argues that marriage
not only makes women economically dependent on men but also
blocks their possibilities for independence. Unlike men, women cannot ﬁnd self-realization that comes through work and activity; these
things can only be achieved physically outside the home and psychically outside the self-sacriﬁce of marriage. Her analysis of motherhood is even harsher. Given that she locates the origins of women’s
oppression in the limitations of being able only to give life, she holds
that restricting women to mother maintains this oppression. For the
contemporary woman, the role of motherhood is one of self-sacriﬁce
and self-limitation, as she becomes merely an object to fulﬁll the
needs of the child.
Here Beauvoir sets the framework for the notion that wife and
mother are roles that women play, rather than something that is required to fulﬁll their special nature. This notion underpinned feminist
claims of the 1960s that marriage and motherhood are only part of
women’s lives, while frustration and a sense of meaninglessness are
caused by the social restrictions that keep women bound to home and
family. Whereas these early theorists often argued that equality for
women could be achieved by meaningful work outside the home,
Beauvoir anticipated later criticisms of this view with her claim that

SECOND WAVE FEMINISM •

207

a career does not provide an escape for women. She argues that career women are still expected to preserve their femininity through
their appearance and behavior, and that this ultimately detracts from
their careers in terms of time spent both on preserving this femininity
and in afﬁrming their inferiority for their co-workers.
Beauvoir also claims that women are partly to blame for internalizing their inferior status, and are thus complicit in its maintenance; in
so doing, women avoid their duty as individuals to strive for transcendence. Beauvoir argues that the reasons for this compliance are
twofold: women prefer the advantages they gain from being the protected Other, and they have no sense of themselves as having a political identity or unity. Beauvoir was the ﬁrst to raise this question of
women’s complicity in their own oppression, and it is a question that
remains a controversial one for feminist theorizing.
In the ﬁnal part of The Second Sex, Beauvoir offers her solution
for the liberation of women: liberation must be collective and can
only begin with economic change. For Beauvoir, women escape oppression through transcendence—an understanding of themselves as
subject—achieved through productive work, intellectual activity, and
socialism. The existentialist framework of this liberation was not
adopted by mainstream feminist theorists, even though the goals of
freedom, choice, and self-determination are central to the feminist
project. Ultimately, with or without this framework, Beauvoir set the
terms of the feminist theoretical project: the uncovering and analysis
of the oppression of women; the location of its causes; and the formulation of solutions for its removal. See also DUALISM; SARTRE,
JEAN-PAUL; SUBJECTIVITY.
SECOND WAVE FEMINISM. The term second wave feminism was
ﬁrst used by Marsha Lear in 1968 to describe the emergence of women’s political movements in the 1960s. Second wave is now used to
describe the feminist movement of the 1960s and the 1970s in both
Europe and the United States. A central reason that the second wave
arose in the United States was the recognition that, despite improvements in the legal and civil rights of women, women had not yet
achieved true equality. This second wave feminist movement was not
a uniﬁed movement; however, two major approaches can be identi-

208 •

SELF

ﬁed: a primarily liberal feminist approach and a more radical feminist one.
The liberal approach can be seen as grounded in the theory of political liberalism, and it is typiﬁed by the National Organization for
Women (NOW), which was founded in 1966 to campaign for the
equal rights of women in all areas of society, such as employment,
education, and family. The women’s liberation movement was a
more radical movement composed of a variety of connected groups.
Often the members of this movement were women who had been part
of other protest movements of the 1960s but who had recognized that
even these movements were sexist or male dominated.
In 1968, a feminist activist movement developed in the United
Kingdom that had its roots in socialism and class struggle, and thus
an emphasis on employment issues such as equality in pay, child
care, and the availability of abortion. The feminist movement in
France that began in 1968 grew out of a rejection of the sexism
within the student movements of that time. Like the movement in
the United Kingdom, the French movement was grounded in socialist
political thought.
The activist work of the second wave feminist movement is reﬂected in feminist philosophical work of the 1970s: for example, in
work on issues within the ‘‘personal’’ or private realm, such as the
family and abortion, as well as in discussions of rights and the notion
of equality. See also FIRST WAVE FEMINISM; POSTFEMINISM;
THIRD WAVE FEMINISM.
SELF. See SUBJECTIVITY.
SEPARATISM. The origins of separatist thought lie in the feminist
thought of the ﬁrst wave of feminism. Cultural feminist Margaret
Fuller, in her 1845 work Woman in the 19th Century, was the ﬁrst to
discuss the value to women of separation from patriarchal culture.
Fuller envisions women’s self-development as not only an individual
process, but as occurring within a woman-only community retired
from the world. Fuller’s vision was one of social reform; recent versions of separatism are now viewed as a political strategy. Separatism
can mean organizing for the liberation of women apart from men, a
separation from oppressive institutions, or a psychological break

SEX •

209

from patriarchal culture as a form of empowerment. Work within
feminist philosophy has been done by Marilyn Frye, who understands separation as an activity of the exclusion of men: depriving
men of the usual access they have to women. Separatism—this controlling of access—is thus an act of power for women.
SEX. During the 1960s, feminists began to distinguish sex, ‘‘male’’ and
‘‘female,’’ from gender, ‘‘men’’ and ‘‘women.’’ The sex of an individual was seen as determined by a set of ﬁxed biological characteristics, whereas gender was seen as a set of mutable social
characteristics that were the result of socialization. This distinction
challenged biological determinism, the dominant scientiﬁc and
popular view that the biological differences between the sexes determined the different social and cultural roles of men and women, as
well as the relations between them.
The political success of the sex/gender distinction for the feminist
movement is not under question, but more recently the distinction
itself has been challenged. Some feminist philosophers argue that biological characteristics are not immutable, as they can be affected by
social practices. In some cultures where there are food shortages, for
example, women are often of a smaller stature than men. This would
appear to be the result of the lower social value of women, as the
practice in times of shortage is to give the food to men. It is also
possible, moreover, that cultural ideals of desirable characteristics of
women may affect the actual amount of these characteristics within
a given population, as women with these characteristics may be more
likely to be selected as reproductive partners. Some feminist philosophers also point to the fact that the way that male and female biological differences are seen is the result of social interpretation. The
current notion that there are two different sexes is fairly recent. In
eighteenth-century Europe, male and female were not framed as opposites; rather, women were understood as inferior or less-developed
versions of men.
The notion that there are two distinct sexes, and only two, is also
being challenged from two different positions: one comes from the
existence of intersexed persons; one draws on the work of Michel
Foucault on sex. The existence of intersexed persons raises the question of whether there are only two sexes. In fact, ﬁve sexes can be

210 •

SEX COMPLEMENTARITY

identiﬁed: male, female, and three ‘‘intersex’’ groups who have both
male and female characteristics. The current medical practice is for
a particular sex to be surgically assigned to an individual from an
intersex group, and indeed this is considered a medical imperative.
Philosophers have questioned what underlies this pressing and unquestioned need for sex assignment. They argue that the existence of
an intersexed individual challenges the assumption that there are
only two sexes, an assumption that is part of our ordering of reality,
and thus our social system.
For Foucault, sex functions as a way to artiﬁcially group biological
and behavioral elements. Thus sex is the product of material discursive practices that construct individuals; it is enacted on the body.
Some feminist philosophers have extended this analysis; they claim
that the concept that the body is some natural, ﬁxed structure is dangerous, as this underpins the assumptions about the natural, ﬁxed
structure of sex difference that justify and form the domination of
women. Moreover, the subsequent naturalness of the existence of two
oppositional unitary sexes, and thus the assumption of a sexual attraction between complementary opposites, supports the heterosexist social system. See also FEMININITY; FRENCH FEMINISM;
MASCULINITY.
SEX COMPLEMENTARITY (SEX COMPLEMENTARIANISM).
Also known as natural complement theory, sex complementarity is a
theory about the natures of the two sexes and the relations between
them. The theory developed in the eighteenth century and was the
foundation of dominant philosophical views during that time of the
nature and social roles of the sexes. The theory states, in essence, that
the biological differences between the sexes produce psychological,
intellectual, and moral differences, and that these various differences
deﬁne the appropriate behavior and roles for men and women. Most
importantly, the natures of the two sexes, and their attendant behaviors and roles, are held to be natural complements of each other. Each
nature actually needs the other to complete itself; this then entails
that heterosexual relationships are seen as both normal and beneﬁcial for humans of both sexes.
The theory of the complementary natures of the sexes need not
carry with it the automatic assumption that one sex is inferior to the

SEXUALITY •

211

other, and many thinkers, pro-feminist and non-feminist alike, held
that it offered an equality between the sexes. Feminist philosophers,
however, argue that this is unlikely, as the ‘‘different’’ characteristics
of women are their historically ‘‘inferior’’ characteristics, such as
emotionality. See also HILDEGARD OF BINGEN; KANT, IMMANUEL; ROUSSEAU, JEAN-JACQUES.
SEX WORK. See PORNOGRAPHY; PROSTITUTION.
SEXUAL HARASSMENT. What constitutes harassment covers a
wide range of actions, from jokes to physical assault. Harassment is
not restricted to sexist behavior; it also includes, among other things,
racist and heterosexist behaviors. The focus of analyses of harassment is usually on behaviors in the workplace but also includes, for
instance, the use of American Indian names and images for sports
teams in the United States. Feminist philosophers have argued that
any analysis of sexual harassment requires the recognition of the way
that, for example, racism and classism intersect with sexism. Thus
black women, for instance, can be harassed because of their membership in this speciﬁc group (not simply because they are women); in
addition, membership in a marginalized group means that these
women’s complaints are less likely to be heard.
Feminist philosophers have focused on explaining how exactly
sexual harassment constitutes sex discrimination, arguing that sexual
harassment is about men using their social and economic power to
dominate women in a particular situation: it is not about sexual attraction. Moreover, it is not just one individual dominating another;
rather, the crucial harm of sexual harassment is the harm that it
causes women as a group. This is because unwanted sexual attention
reinforces perceptions of women as sex objects or as subordinates
more generally. See also POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
SEXUALITY. For feminist philosophers, sexuality covers sexual identity, desire, and experience. Feminist philosophical work on sexuality examines the realities of women’s experiences, a rejection of the
ideology of human sexuality, and an analysis of the oppressive nature of this ideology. This work reﬂects a variety of approaches that

212 •

SEXUALITY

come from radical feminist thought, analytic philosophy, and postmodern philosophy. All of these approaches have, as part of their
foundations, the recognition that Western philosophers have seen
human sexuality as dangerous or threatening. Contemporary nonfeminist philosophers tend to avoid discussions of sexuality; when
the subject is discussed by non-feminists, it tends to be grounded in
the assumption that heterosexuality is the norm.
Radical feminism holds that much of the oppression experienced
by women stems from male control of female reproduction and sexuality. There are culturally approved deﬁnitions of both male and female sexuality, but only the deﬁnition of the latter has been seen as
a form of oppression; this is because, within patriarchal society, female sexuality is supposed to be directed solely toward the pleasure
of men. Thus one way to resist patriarchy is for women to control
and explore their own sexuality and sexual pleasure. For some radical
feminists, lesbianism is the model for this control. Other radical feminists have argued that women’s sexual liberation, and its necessary
accompaniment of improved contraceptive measures, ultimately beneﬁts men, not women.
Analytic feminists tend to focus on logical and linguistic analyses
of sexual desire and sexual practices, such as prostitution. Those
lesbian philosophers who are inﬂuenced by the analytic approach
argue that the deﬁnition of sexual activity as heterosexual intercourse
between a dominant male and a passive female means that gay and
lesbian sexualities cannot be accounted for: there is no language to
describe their sexuality.
The inﬂuence of postmodern philosophy on analytic analysis is increasing, and the postmodern philosophical analysis of sexuality has
been the dominant approach in Western philosophy since the 1990s.
Postmodern feminist philosophers typically draw on Michel Foucault’s work on the history of sexuality to claim that sexuality is not
innate; rather, deﬁnitions of sexuality are political creations and, as
such, are the objects of knowledge and control. Judith Butler takes
this approach, holding that the construction of men and women in
opposition to each other supports the system of heterosexuality, because this construction deﬁnes sexual desire as a desire between opposites.
The work of Luce Irigaray, the French feminist, has also had an

SHIVA, VANDANA •

213

inﬂuence on discourse on women’s sexuality, in particular for the
way she offers new, non-patriarchal ways of writing this discourse.
Irigaray critiques the clitoral/vaginal conception of female sexuality
as a phallocentric conceptualization. Woman’s sexuality has been
represented as either vaginal, a passive receptacle for a penis, or clitoral, the activity of a little penis. Thus female sexuality does not
have an existence, as it has no cultural representation. Irigaray does
not offer an alternative conception of female sexuality—of what this
sexuality is in reality—as this replays the maleness of the concept
that sexuality is one thing. She holds, instead, that female sexuality is
unstructured, ﬂuid, and multiple. This is expressed through Irigaray’s
counter-representation of female sexuality using the metaphor of the
‘‘two lips’’ of women’s genitals: they are both one and two.
Most of the work on female sexuality has been done by white
Western feminists. Feminists from non-Western cultures who discuss
the issue of female sexuality tend to see the more theoretical interests
of Western feminists as lacking relevance to the realities of women’s
lives. They focus, instead, on the way that many sexual practices,
such as genital surgery, are actually dangerous for women. For Western feminists of color, discussion of the sexuality of non-white
women requires an understanding of a different set of cultural stereotypes; for example, both men and women of color, black people in
particular, are seen within the dominant white culture as hypersexual.
This image projects the problematic element of the animal nature,
and thus the sexual nature, of humans onto people of color; in this
way, it serves to reinforce assumptions of white superiority. See also
BODY: GENDER; SEX.
SHIVA, VANDANA (1952– ). The Indian physicist and ecofeminist
activist Vandana Shiva can be credited with the ﬁrst successful development of a speciﬁcally Indian feminist philosophy. As an ecofeminist, Shiva grounds her philosophy on a theoretical analysis of the
traditional connections of women and nature, and the way that these
connections play out in practice within Indian women’s grassroots
movements for the protection of the environment. Her best-known
book is Staying Alive: Women, Ecology, and Development (1998).
The central foundation for Shiva’s philosophy is the feminine
principle of prakriti, and respect for this principle. These are part of

214 •

SHIVA, VANDANA

written philosophy and oral spiritual traditions. Prakriti is part of the
ontological framework of traditional Hindu thought in which the individual soul (atman) and the divine spirit (brahman) are not separate
but uniﬁed. Prakriti is conceived of as an energy that pervades all
matter, both human and non-human. It is a living, conscious energy
that, because of this monist ontology, is part of the material as well
as the spiritual world. Thus it is not a principle of opposites but of
both difference and oneness.
Even though prakriti is understood as feminine, it does not contain
the characteristics traditionally associated with women and the feminine. It is an active, not passive, principle. It is not simply about the
power of female reproduction, which many feminists regard as a
reductionist view of women, but about production: it is a creative
principle. Respect for this principle involves a recognition that both
nature and humans have consciousness. Thus nature is not an inanimate object that needs technological development in order to be fully
productive; it is not to be used solely as a resource for humans.
An understanding of this ontology is interconnected with a need
for political change, a shift in ethical thinking, and the development
of a new (feminine) epistemology. For Shiva, the imposition of
Western capitalist economic values is grounded in a separation of humans from nature; indeed, this separation is fundamental to this system’s way of seeing nature as nothing more than a resource, one that
can have value only once it has been subject to capitalist development.
Shiva calls this ‘‘maldevelopment,’’ and argues that it is the direct
cause of environmental destruction as well as the socio-economic inequalities between those who are part of the process of production
and those who are not. Environmental destruction and the reconception of work as capitalist production are especially problematic for
women, as their work has traditionally been work on the land. Women’s connection to nature is one of cooperation with a source of life
that is expressed in practice: for example, through the replanting of
trees that can be used for ﬁrewood. Women’s traditional use of nature
is, therefore, devalued, and their use of the land is dismissed because
it is not real ‘‘production’’: it does not contribute to the gross national
product.
Shiva also argues that the technology/nature dichotomy underpins

SOCIALIST FEMINISM •

215

the Western dichotomy of development/backwardness, a conceptual
framework that allows only two opposing alternatives for the society
and economy of India. Even though Shiva is not denying the real
existence of material poverty, she claims that this dualist way of
thinking results in the labeling of a subsistence lifestyle—one that
satisﬁes human needs without recourse to consumer goods—as a life
of poverty.
In contrast, respect for the feminine principle leads to the revaluing
of a subsistence lifestyle. This is both a political and an ethical
change in thinking and acting. In terms of political change Shiva argues, for example, that humans must reject the consumerist culture
and economy, and recognize that natural resources must be understood as common goods, not the private property of a few. In order
to achieve such sweeping changes, women and men need to cultivate
traditional—feminine—ways of moral thinking about our relationship with nature. In this way, the importance of women’s roles in
sustaining life will be made visible, and their knowledge of the activities needed for sustainability will be epistemically necessary. This
is beneﬁcial for women as well as the environment, as it will also
raise women’s social status. This change in thinking and its practical
results are not simply for the liberation of women; Shiva holds that
both sexes will be freed as humans, in the sense that they will have
returned to their rightful place in nature. See also DUAL SYSTEMS
THEORY; FEMININE ETHICS; FEMINIST ETHICS.
SOCIAL CONTRACT. See CONTRACTARIANISM.
SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY. See POLITICAL AND SOCIAL PHILOSOPHY.
SOCIALIST FEMINISM. The political philosophy of socialist feminism began in the 1970s and shares much with both radical and
Marxist feminist thought. Some philosophers consider it an extension of one of these theories, rather than a distinct political philosophy, but socialist philosophers attribute that impression to the fact
that socialist feminist political philosophy is still in the process of
development. Moreover, they argue that work thus far in socialist
feminism is partially grounded in a critique of the theoretical and

216 •

SOCIALIST FEMINISM

practical inadequacies of radical and Marxist explanations of the oppression of women. Thus, they argue, socialist feminism is not an
extension of these other forms of political feminism, but rather a new
theory developed to addresses the inadequacies of earlier theories.
On the whole, the development of a socialist feminism that is positioned as distinct from Marxist feminism has tended to remain conﬁned to the United States.
Socialist feminism takes from radical feminism the understanding
that there is a political need to address women’s oppression in the
private sphere. However, socialist feminists employ a historical materialist approach to analyzing this oppression, rejecting the radical
feminist view of the universality across culture and time of the
forms that this oppression takes. Socialist feminism shares with
Marxist feminism the view that human nature is not ﬁxed; rather, it
is the creation of a particular set of historical social circumstances.
Socialist feminists, however, do not share the Marxist view that class
is the sole source of women’s subordination, nor do they accept the
radical feminist claim that male domination is the only source of this
subordination. They analyze, instead, the interconnection of the systems of class and gender. For socialist feminists, radical feminism
fails to recognize that the oppression of women is not just the product
of male dominance, while Marxist feminism fails to recognize the
import of women’s labor in the private sphere. Socialist feminism
was criticized by feminists of color in the 1980s for the failure to
recognize race as another system of domination. More recent socialist theorizing has moved toward the understanding that sexism and
capitalism cannot be separated from racism, imperialism, and heterosexism, and that to dismantle one system requires dismantling
them all.
As with other feminist theories, no one position deﬁnes socialist
feminism; however, there is a shared goal of demonstrating the connections of the sexual division of labor with the domination of
women. One connection that is often the subject of analysis is the
construction of gendered characteristics through the organization of
the division of labor in child-rearing, although socialist feminists do
not claim that these characteristics are universal. Mothers are usually
the primary caretakers in the traditional family, and this social practice serves both to impose a rigid binary distinction between the

SOCIALIZATION •

217

sexes and to identify femininity with characteristics, such as nurturing, as well as with a lower social status.
The sexual division of labor in the private sphere reinforces male
dominance over individual women, and it also serves to free men as
a group to spend more time earning money. In contrast, the division
of labor is an economic disadvantage for women. It translates into
the public sphere in the way that their paid work often involves caring
and serving; moreover, such work is seen as the province of women.
In its turn, this may encourage women to use their sexuality to get
married and have children: to have economic advancement and security. Thus, in a socialist feminist analysis, reproduction, childrearing, and sexuality can be understood in economic terms.
Socialist feminists advocate dismantling the economic and power
differences between men and women that rest on the division of
labor. They also target the root of these differences, calling for the
rejection of the organization of social life into public and private
spheres. A primary element of this prescription includes the reproductive freedom of women. This can mean economic freedom
through systems of state support for child-rearing, and women’s control over their own bodies through easy access to contraception and
abortion. One concern for socialist feminists is that these changes
are primarily for the privileged women of industrialized ‘‘developed’’
nations; the economic freedom they produce may be enhanced by the
exploitation of both women and men from less-developed nations as
workers for the production of cheap commodities. See also ALIENATION; PUBLIC/PRIVATE DISTINCTION.
SOCIALIZATION. The standard account of the phenomenon of socialization is that the apparent psychological and intellectual differences between the sexes is the result of a social conditioning that
begins at birth; thus gender roles and characteristics are not ﬁxed or
the product of biology. In order to demonstrate this, feminist theorists have typically pointed to the fact that these characteristics are
not universal across cultures or through history. The ﬁrst feminist
philosopher to identify this phenomenon was Mary Wollstonecraft,
who argued that the social conditioning of her eighteenth-century
contemporaries to be compliant and pleasing was speciﬁcally de-

218 •

SOCIETY FOR WOMEN IN PHILOSOPHY

signed to beneﬁt men. The ﬁrst in-depth examination of the phenomenon was Juliet Mitchell’s Women: The Longest Revolution (1966).
The concept of socialization is premised on the distinction between sex and gender. With the challenges to this distinction in the
1980s, the standard concept of socialization is no longer prominent
in feminist philosophical discussions, having given way to more
complex accounts of the relation between society and gender. See
also BIOLOGICAL DETERMINISM; ESSENTIALISM.
SOCIETY FOR WOMEN IN PHILOSOPHY (SWIP). SWIP is a
professional society with the goal of promoting and supporting
women in philosophy. There are branches of the society in the United
States, United Kingdom (SWIP [UK]), and Canada (CSWIP).
SOCIETY FOR WOMEN’S ADVANCEMENT IN PHILOSOPHY
(SWAP). SWAP is a graduate student organization in the United
States that was formed to support women graduate students in philosophy.
SOCRATES. See PLATO.
SOMATOPHOBIA. Philosopher Elizabeth Spelman coined the term
somatophobia to describe the rejection of the importance of—or even
the disgust at—the body that is prevalent throughout the Western
philosophical tradition. The accompanying view within this tradition
is that the mind, and its capacity for reason, is superior to the body,
and may even require transcendence from the body. The historical
and cultural association of women with the body has led to the implicit or explicit exclusion of women from the philosophical project,
understood as a project of the search through reason for truth and
knowledge.
Some feminist philosophers argue that somatophobia plays out covertly in present-day feminist theory, particularly in liberal feminism. The identiﬁcation of women’s liberation with the freedom and
opportunity to develop mentally leads to an accompanying neglect of
the physical or bodily aspects of women’s lives. Also neglected is the
reality that different bodies, for example, through a disability, can

SUBJECTIVITY •

219

dictate the amount of freedom and opportunity experienced by different women. See also DUALISM.
SOPHIA [pseud.] (ﬂ. 1739). The 1739 tract Woman Not Inferior to
Man or, A Short and Modest Vindication of the Natural Right of the
Fair Sex to a Perfect Equality of Power, Dignity, and Esteem, written
under the pseudonym ‘‘Sophia, a Person of Quality,’’ is an early English argument for female equality. Some commentators have
claimed that it was inﬂuenced by François Poullain de la Barre’s
1673 work On the Equality of the Two Sexes: A Physical and Moral
Discourse Which Shows the Importance of Overcoming Prejudice.
The unidentiﬁed Sophia makes use of Enlightenment discourse of
the superiority of reason over passion to critique the arguments for
the inferiority of women made by male Enlightenment philosophers.
Sophia points out that, as human beings, women possess reason just
like men. Moreover, she says, men cannot lay claim to a superior
reason for they are so controlled by their own passions that there is
nothing in their behavior that can justify such a claim. Sophia further
states that the arguments offered by men for women’s inferiority are
rooted in male prejudice and self-interest. She appeals, instead, to
what she calls ‘‘rectiﬁed reason’’ as an impartial judge of the true
nature of the sexes. Sophia claims that any difference between the
intelligence or reason of the sexes can be traced to the inferior education of women. Her arguments are not just theoretical; they also have
practical corollaries. She claims that, once women are properly educated, they will be capable of taking part in government and even
holding some military roles.
SPINOZA, BENEDICT (BARUCH) DE. See AUSTRALIA, FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY IN.
STANDPOINT THEORY. See EPISTEMOLOGY.
STEREOTYPES. See CONTROLLING IMAGES.
SUBJECTIVITY. The traditional philosophical concept of self is a
contentious one for feminist philosophy. This concept has its roots in
René Descartes’s notion of the individual knowing ‘‘I,’’ an individ-

220 •

SUBJECTIVITY

ual who is a thinking thing. It is through the use of its reason that
this conceptually disembodied, solitary self attains knowledge of the
world. During the Enlightenment, this self was conceptualized as an
autonomous, self-determining agent, a reasoning self who was usually disembedded and disembodied. This self could not only attain
knowledge but had the capacity for its individual self-fulﬁllment.
Moreover, as each self was unsituated, and characterized only by a
capacity for reason, these selves were fundamentally equal.
This notion of a gender-neutral, core identity has been appealing
for some feminist philosophers. A denial of selfhood to women has
traditionally provided justiﬁcation for their social and philosophical
exclusion. Thus it has been argued by some feminist philosophers
that women’s equality can be achieved through claiming this self and
its attendant beneﬁts and characteristics.
However, this approach may be in tension with the feminist philosophical enterprise. Part of this enterprise is to examine traditional
philosophy for its male bias. At its core, the Western philosophical
concept of the autonomous, individualist, unsituated self may be
nothing more than the reﬂection of the experience of privileged,
white Western males. As a result, some feminist philosophers have
claimed that the notion of the self must be revised to become a situated self: one that is gendered, embodied, and formed through its
relations, both positive and negative, with others. Ultimately, however, a complete rejection of some notion of a core self may be in
tension with feminist goals, for it would seem that there needs to be
a bearer of rights, a recipient of justice, and a knower who can uncover truths behind the patriarchal framework of reality.
Postmodern feminist philosophers argue that only a complete rejection of the self can disentangle contemporary intellectual thought
from the failures of Enlightenment thought. They hold that the self
is not the source of its determination; the self is, instead, the product
of discursive practices. In this view, the term ‘‘subject’’ is more appropriate, as the whole notion of self is being rejected. However, the
postmodern subject does not function as a replacement concept for
the single model of the self; rather, there is a multiplicity of subjects.
This rejection entails a rejection of a gender identity, an innate sexuality, and the conception of the body as some kind of ‘‘natural’’ ﬁxed
structure. See also EPISTEMOLOGY; PHILOSOPHY OF MIND.

TAYLOR MILL, HARRIET •

221

–T–

TAYLOR MILL, HARRIET (1807–1858). English philosopher Harriet Taylor began a lifelong friendship with John Stuart Mill when
they were both in their twenties; they married in 1851, two years after
the death of her ﬁrst husband, John Taylor.
Taylor began writing philosophy in 1830. Sometime during 1831
or 1832, Taylor and Mill wrote essays for each other on marriage
and divorce. Taylor took a more radical stance than Mill in her untitled essay on marriage, not only arguing that women should be given
civil and political equality, but claiming that there should be no laws
at all related to marriage. Once this was achieved, she argued, women
would be the one responsible for the children, and thus, by the same
token, women would decide how many children to have, as this
would no longer be a way of binding her husband to her. As Taylor
only mentions brieﬂy the necessary corollary of the employment of
women in this early essay, it is not clear whether she is referring just
to divorced women or whether she includes married women as well.
She states that in order to be in a position to support their children,
women would need to be both properly educated and free to take up
any occupation they wanted. To deny all of this to women is essentially to require them ‘‘to barter person for bread.’’
In the past there has been some dispute about the authorship of the
1851 work The Enfranchisement of Women, but it is now generally
agreed that Taylor—not John Stuart Mill—was the author. This is
based on both the evidence of correspondence between the two philosophers and the differences in the content of these works. The overall thrust of The Enfranchisement is the political, civil, and social
equality of women. A central point of divergence between The Enfranchisement and Mill’s 1869 work The Subjection of Women is the
claim that married women should continue to work outside the home
after marriage as a way of ensuring both their independence and
equality within that marriage, as well as their general social equality.
While Taylor is now recognized as a philosopher in her own right,
her inﬂuence on Mill’s work is still unresolved. Mill claimed that The
Principles of Political Economy (1848) and On Liberty (1859) were
collaborative efforts with Taylor. Some argue that, because these two

222 •

THEOLOGY

works were published naming Mill as the sole author, this claim was
essentially a courtesy for her editorial work. For others, the fact that
Taylor is not credited with authorship is seen as a casualty of social
conventions that kept women from the public sphere of publishing
and accorded them little intellectual authority.
THEOLOGY. See RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY OF.
THIRD WAVE FEMINISM. Third wave feminism is sometimes
termed postfeminism, but this term is contested by some self-deﬁned
third wave feminists because of its use to describe the conservative
reaction to second wave feminism that began in the mid-1980s.
Third wave feminism is an activist movement mainly in the United
States. It can be traced back to the 1980s and is still in its infancy.
While its proponents continue to aim for the liberation of women,
they do not see this as a separate task from the liberation of other
subordinate groups. In terms of theory, this third wave of feminism
draws on the work of Third World feminists and feminists of color
that has emphasized the differences in women’s experiences of oppression due to race, class, nationality, and so forth. Third wave
feminism is inclusive; it is a coalition politics formed from a diverse
community. For these reasons, third wave feminism resists easy
deﬁnition; it is a collective voice, not a single uniﬁed voice. See also
FIRST WAVE FEMINISM.
TRANSSEXUALITY. See GENDER; SEX.

–U–
UNIVERSALISM. The term universalism has two types of use within
feminist philosophy. The ﬁrst use of the term is sometimes called
‘‘metaphysical feminism’’ and is part of feminist thought, usually
radical feminism, more generally. It is the claim that all women
have something fundamentally in common—biological, psychological, and/or social—that is the same across culture and history. The
term universalism is sometimes used interchangeably with the term
essentialism, but universalism does not necessarily entail the further

UTILITARIANISM •

223

claim of essentialism that these shared characteristics are an innate,
ﬁxed part of female nature. Universalist claims often formed an important part of early feminist arguments; however, since the 1980s,
universalism has been criticized for marginalizing, or making invisible, differences (such as race and class) among women.
Within feminist philosophy, the second use of the term universalism has a more speciﬁc use. Feminist philosophers have questioned
both the notion of a universal human nature and the notion of universality as a necessary characteristic of knowledge claims and moral
judgments. In the former case, even if they accept that there is a universal human nature, some feminist philosophers have criticized traditional philosophical characterizations of human nature as gender
biased; this is because these characterizations reﬂect traits and ideals
that are culturally associated with ‘‘maleness.’’
While the belief that universality is a necessary component of
knowledge claims and moral judgments has a long philosophical history, current understanding of its importance owes much to Enlightenment thought. Reason, the characteristic of humans, leads (alone
or with the senses) to the acquisition of universal knowledge and a
correct understanding of morality. However, this universal rational
agreement is attained, in part, through an abstraction from the particulars of situated reality.
For these reasons, some feminist philosophers have charged that
the characteristic of universality is grounded in the assumption of the
knowing self as disembodied and disembedded, thus ignoring the
way that such things as experience and the body can affect both access to knowledge and the conceptualization of morality. For some
feminist philosophers, this self is not gender neutral, as it only reﬂects male experience. For others, the actual universal agreements
generated by these supposedly abstract selves only reﬂect the particular experience or perspective of dominant social groups. Ultimately
these criticisms mean that, at best, the use of the concept of universalism is approached with caution by most feminist philosophers. See
also EPISTEMOLOGY; IMPARTIALITY; INDIVIDUALISM, ABSTRACT; OBJECTIVITY; RELATIVISM; SUBJECTIVITY.
UTILITARIANISM. See MILL, JOHN STUART; WHEELER,
ANNA DOYLE.

224 •

VALUE HIERARCHICAL THINKING

–V–
VALUE HIERARCHICAL THINKING. In a similar way to normative dualism, value hierarchical thinking is a key feature in the conceptual frameworks that justify the oppression of women and other
groups. Value hierarchical thinking frames the difference or diversity
between groups, for example, the sexes, as a difference of value organized vertically: lower value (women) and higher value (men). This
way of organizing the world then functions to sustain oppressive conceptual frameworks, such as sexism. In itself, hierarchical thinking,
and even value hierarchical thinking in certain contexts, may not be
problematic. For example, it is not problematic to claim that particular species are better at adapting to changes in their environment than
others. However, one problem is that the perceived superiority of one
group over another sanctions the subordination of the inferior group.
Moreover, oppressive social systems dictate the identiﬁcation of the
groups that are to be organized and valued hierarchically.
VALUE NEUTRALITY. Feminist philosophers have begun to question the attainability—and the desirability—of the ideal of value neutrality for philosophical and scientiﬁc investigation, description, and
explanation. The formalization of this ideal is often seen as rooted in
the Cartesian project, with this project’s development of the concept
of a disembodied and disembedded knower attaining and evaluating
knowledge through use of her or his reason. Freed from their values,
emotions, and particular social contexts, knowers are fundamentally
the same. A rigid dichotomy is thus formed between objective facts
and subjective values. This fact/value distinction has been central to
twentieth-century Anglo-American analytic philosophy, in particular to ethical theorizing.
Feminist philosophers argue that, even though the goal of value
neutrality can eliminate the particular values of individuals engaged
in scientiﬁc and philosophical investigation, what are taken as the
facts generated by this investigation often reﬂect general social values. These general values underpin the choices of research subjects
and the hypotheses to be tested. Feminist philosophers argue that this
is not just a question of theoretical adequacy, but that scientiﬁc and
philosophical theories have reﬂected male-biased cultural assump-

VEGETARIANISM •

225

tions about human nature and sex difference. Thus the knowledge
generated by these theories has served to reinforce the subordination
of women. Moreover, some feminist philosophers have also maintained that the grounding of the ideal itself is male biased, as it reﬂects the male experience of the world, which has traditionally been
unrestricted by the concrete demands of home and family.
A typical approach to this problem, offered by Anglo-American
analytic feminist philosophers, has been to hold that the situatedness
of knowers is of epistemic signiﬁcance, and to argue that one of the
requirements of feminist philosophy is that it must be consciously
value laden in order to achieve the goal of political change. See also
DESCARTES, RENÉ; FEMINIST ETHICS; LANGUAGE, PHILOSOPHY OF.
VEGETARIANISM. Within mainstream philosophy, vegetarianism is
part of the subject ﬁeld of animal ethics. In the case of feminist vegetarianism, it is not just an ethical issue, but one that is informed by
gender politics. Even as early as the nineteenth century, writers and
activists were linking women and vegetarianism. Based on the fact
that meat eating was historically associated with power/wealth and
masculinity, early feminist arguments drew connections between
vegetarianism and gentleness in women versus meat eating and dominance in men. Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s 1915 novel Herland,
which depicts a utopian community of women, was the ﬁrst work to
connect vegetarianism explicitly with the political movements of
feminism and paciﬁsm. This vegetarianism-feminism-paciﬁsm connection was brought to the fore for some feminists during World War
I, when violence and war became a politically charged reality. The
killing of humans was seen as an outgrowth of the killing of animals,
while the presence of war was seen as an outgrowth of patriarchy.
The central arguments of current feminist philosophers have not
changed much from those of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, although their work offers more explicitly politicized and detailed analyses of feminist vegetarianism. In particular, feminist
philosophers have examined the ways that meat eating both supports
and is supported by patriarchal culture, how violence against women
reﬂects violence against animals, and how women are treated, particularly in pornography, as ‘‘meat.’’ See also ECOFEMINISM.

226 •

VINDICATION OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN

VINDICATION OF THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN, A. Mary Wollstonecraft’s 1792 polemical treatise A Vindication of the Rights of
Woman is usually seen as the ﬁrst sustained philosophical argument
for the equality of women. An early liberal feminist, Wollstonecraft
founded her demand for the rights of women on her theories of
human nature and morality.
Wollstonecraft wrote A Vindication of the Rights of Woman at a
time when economically privileged women were undereducated and
discouraged from developing their rational capacities. She recognized that the resulting mental and moral inferiority of these women
was not due to a supposed female nature. She claimed, instead, that
their rationality and morality had been weakened by bad or no education as well as by a social environment that groomed them to play
the role of pleasing mistress, not responsible wife or mother. Rather
than being trained to develop their capacities for reason, these
women were encouraged to develop an ultra-reﬁned emotionality
that was identiﬁed with femininity. Wollstonecraft supports her
claim that the sex differences observed in females are the result of
social conditioning and education by pointing to the ‘‘feminine’’
character of males in the upper ranks of the military. These military
men pay particular attention to their dress and behavior and live a
life dedicated to pleasing others through their gallantry and social
accomplishments.
Wollstonecraft rejects the notion that the sexes have different natures that require different courses of education and different standards of social behavior. She holds, instead, that there is a universal
human nature, with the distinguishing characteristic of reason. It is
because of reason that humans, unlike animals, have the capacity for
the development of virtue. Given this supposition, Wollstonecraft argues that women—due to their social conditioning and lack of education—were being denied their human rights to develop their innate
capacities for reason and virtue. Moreover, because Wollstonecraft
also held that the development of reason and virtue forms the basis
of society itself, she claimed that women were also being denied their
rights to become contributing members of society. Wollstonecraft’s
emphasis on reason as the deﬁning characteristic of human beings
has led some current feminist philosophers to question whether she

WAR AND PEACE •

227

devalued, or even rejected, the emotions: the elements of human life
that have traditionally been associated with women or the feminine.
There are some problematic classist elements in Wollstonecraft’s
call for the equality of women. She takes it as understood that
women, once liberated, will still require household servants to assist
them, so that they can fulﬁll properly their roles as mother, wife, and
citizen. Thus it would appear that she is only interested in the liberation of women of the middle classes. See also ROUSSEAU, JEANJACQUES; SOCIALIZATION.
VIOLENCE. See WAR AND PEACE.

–W–
WAR AND PEACE. There has not been much feminist work on the
traditional philosophical questions associated with war, such as ‘‘just
war’’ theory. The one notable exception from the history of philosophy is Christine de Pizan, who wrote on military ethics in The Book
of Feats of Arms and Chivalry (Le Livre des Fais d’Armes et de
Chevalerie). This work covers a variety of topics beyond the just war,
including a discussion of the ideal military commander. Aimed at
military men, rather than theorists, the book was intended to encourage and establish appropriate behavior in the relations between commanders and soldiers and between warring countries.
Contemporary feminist philosophers have typically criticized the
standard approach to discussions of war: just war theory. Just war
theory has been criticized because it is overly abstract, because it
fails to recognize that war involves individual humans and concrete
harms, and because an emphasis on justice and rights serves to overshadow the needs and interests of those affected by war. Underlying
these criticisms is the more general criticism of the foundational assumption of just war theory: the assumption that war is ultimately
necessary. There have been very few attempts by feminist philosophers to offer an alternative to just war theory. Typically these attempts have aimed to modify the theory in relation to how it would
actually be practiced.
Feminist philosophers have not limited their discussions to the vio-

228 •

WHEELER, ANNA DOYLE

lence of war; they have also focused on the concept and practice of
peace. In these discussions, peace is not understood as simply a state
of non-war. Discussions of peace range from analyses of the abuse
of one individual by another to the violence of social injustice and
environmental damage. Moreover, given that violence of all kinds
often affects disempowered groups the most, the central feminist goal
of social justice would appear to incorporate a goal of peace. In addition, feminist philosophers tend to focus on analyzing such things as
the contexts in which war takes place, the speciﬁc concrete elements
of war, and the symbolic or cultural connection between war and
masculinity. The latter connection is played out in a variety of ways,
such as through the prizing of male aggression, through the depiction
of men as protectors and women as victims in need of saving,
through images of feminine loyalty, and through female roles within
wartime as caretakers.
This connection can also serve to disguise the fact that war does
have a speciﬁc effect on women as women; military spending, for
example, can take away funding from social welfare programs. Some
feminist philosophers argue that, as historically and culturally there
are connections between militarism and citizenship, the connection
between militarism and masculinity needs to be ruptured through the
equal inclusion of women in the military; this way women can
achieve full political agency. Others wish to maintain this connection
in some way and typically argue for the need to revalue and reframe
the ‘‘feminine’’ side—not as mere passivity—but as a part of active
political peace-making or non-violent resistance.
One major area of interest is the analysis of the ethical and political thinking that lies behind women’s non-violent peace movements,
as well as the reasons for the success of these movements. There are
concerns, however, that these analyses may be a double-edged sword.
They may invoke the traditional images of women as peace-makers
or as somehow more connected to peaceful behavior. One criticism
of this notion of women as non-violent carers is that it reinforces
questionable traditional female roles and characteristics; it also ignores the fact that women have contributed to violence and war, typically through caring for those involved in the ﬁghting.
WHEELER, ANNA DOYLE (1785–1848). Irish philosopher and activist Anna Doyle was born in County Tipperary, Ireland, to an An-

WITTGENSTEIN, LUDWIG JOSEF JOHANN •

229

glican family. Married at ﬁfteen to Frances Massey Wheeler, she left
her husband in 1812, taking their two children with her. Wheeler then
spent much of her life moving between England, Ireland, and France.
She was part of the socialist circles in France and England of that
time, and she wanted to combine the socialist philosophies of Charles
Fourier, Robert Owen, and Henri de Saint-Simon. Wheeler was also
connected to the English Utilitarians, in particular Jeremy Bentham.
Wheeler achieved recognition as a speaker on women’s rights, but
she is best known for the work she co-authored with William Thompson: The Appeal of One Half the Human Race, Women, Against the
Pretensions of the Other Half, Men to Restrain Them in Political and
Thence in Civil and Domestic Slavery (1825). The distinctive contribution of The Appeal to feminist philosophy, as well to as the women’s movement, lies in the fact that it was the ﬁrst sustained argument
for women’s suffrage.
The Appeal was written as a response to James Mill’s Encyclopedia Britannica entry on government. In this entry, Mill claims that
political rights could be denied to women because their interests were
‘‘covered’’ (coverture) by those of their husbands or fathers. Wheeler
and Thomson see this as conﬂicting with the moral principle of utility. They understand the utilitarian goal of the overall greatest happiness in terms of the collective happiness of each individual in society,
rather than the happiness of some people being subsumed under a
mythical ‘‘public good.’’ Wheeler and Thompson argue that, in order
to achieve the greatest happiness of the greatest number, women
must be given equal political and civil rights with men. They make
it clear that they are not asking whether giving political rights to
women would lead to the happiness of men; rather, they claim that,
as women constitute half of the human race, women’s happiness deserves consideration in itself.
WITTGENSTEIN, LUDWIG JOSEF JOHANN (1889–1951). Philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein was born in Vienna, Austria. He produced his ﬁrst major work, the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, in
1921. In 1929, he went to Cambridge, England, to teach; his writing
from this period culminated in his other major book, Philosophical
Investigations (published posthumously in 1953). In essence, Wittgenstein argues in this work that there is no ‘‘thing’’—either in objec-

230 •

WITTGENSTEIN, LUDWIG JOSEF JOHANN

tive space or inside the mind—that gives words their meaning.
Language is not one thing but a collection of different activities or
practices, which he terms ‘‘language games.’’ This does not commit
him to the view that the meanings of words are radically unﬁxed or
arbitrary. Language games cannot be examined in isolation from
what he calls their ‘‘forms of life’’: our interactions, the human
world, and so forth. It is only within these ‘‘forms of life’’ that we
can make judgments about the correct or incorrect use of language,
for meaning comes from the agreement in judgments and use within
the linguistic community itself.
At present, there is philosophical work on Ludwig Wittgenstein
that has feminist implications, and feminist work that has Wittgensteinian inﬂuences, but there is little work explicitly exploring the potential of connections between Wittgenstein’s philosophy and
feminist philosophy. This would seem to be due to a fundamental
tension between Wittgensteinian philosophy and feminist theorizing. Whereas Wittgenstein held that agreement in judgments and
shared forms of life provide the background for intelligibility (and
thus cannot be challenged as a whole), feminist philosophers aim to
challenge what we take for granted, arguing that the world that
frames our understandings and actions is problematically androcentric.
The two approaches, however, do share signiﬁcant common
ground: a questioning of the traditional philosophical enterprise itself. Philosophers of both types wish to interrogate why certain questions have been deemed the central questions of philosophy, why
these questions have been framed only in certain ways, and why only
certain methods are considered philosophically appropriate for doing
philosophy. Where feminist philosophers and Wittgensteinian philosophers differ, however, is that the questioning by the former of the
traditional philosophical enterprise is directed toward uncovering the
way that gender plays out in and constructs this enterprise.
Thus far, the few feminist investigations of Wittgenstein’s philosophy break down into two basic categories: those that explore Wittgenstein in relation to the development of feminist theorizing itself,
and those that utilize his work to answer speciﬁc problems within
that theorizing. The ﬁrst has been the predominant category. One of
its central elements is the examination of the shared desire to reject

WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORY OF •

231

epistemologies that are objectivist and realist metaphysics, albeit
for differing reasons. It has been acknowledged by feminist philosophers that this kind of challenge to the traditional epistemology and
metaphysics is potentially dangerous, as it can lead to relativist
claims about truth and knowledge. Such relativism has been seen as
problematic, as it would appear that it cannot offer any ﬁrm ground
for either the theoretical or the practical component of the feminist
philosophical project. Wittgenstein’s work has been seen to offer a
third way of grounding truth and knowledge that provides an alternative to the objectivism-relativism dichotomy. See also CANON, CRITIQUE OF.
WOLLSTONECRAFT, MARY (1759–1797). The early English liberal feminist Mary Wollstonecraft is known for her 1792 work A
Vindication of the Rights of Woman. Wollstonecraft spent her early
adult years working variously as a companion, a governess, and a
teacher at a day school that she established in 1783. After the failure
of the school, one of Wollstonecraft’s friends suggested that she support herself ﬁnancially through writing. Her ﬁrst published work was
Thoughts on the Education of Daughters: with Reﬂections on Female
Conduct, in the More Important Duties of Life (1787). Though the
content of this work appears little different from other female conduct books of this period, it is still possible to see the presence of
many of the subjects that became part of her later feminist works: for
example, her discussion of the fate of women who are left without
money or an education. Strictly speaking, A Vindication of the
Rights of Woman is Wollstonecraft’s only work of feminist philosophy. Her two other feminist works, the autobiographical Mary (1788)
and the unpublished Maria, or the Wrongs of Women, both present
her philosophical thoughts in the form of ﬁction.
WOMAN/WOMEN. See ESSENTIALISM; GENDER; SEX.
WOMANIST/WOMANISM. See GLOBAL FEMINISM.
WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORY OF. One aspect of the
canon critique by feminist philosophers is the recovery of forgotten
or undervalued women philosophers from the history of philosophy.

232 •

WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS, HISTORY OF

Mary Ellen Waithe’s A History of Women Philosophers provides the
most inclusive survey, documenting women philosophers from 600
BCE to the twentieth century. This type of canon critique rewrites
the history of philosophy by showing that it has not been solely a
male enterprise, and thus provides feminist philosophers with potential ‘‘foremothers,’’ while interrogating the way that philosophy in
the present still rests on assumptions that it is a male enterprise.
A central priority for the inclusion of these women philosophers
in the history of philosophy has been to identify the ways that they
have been excluded. Social conditions have kept women out of the
places of public philosophical discourse, such as universities, or have
led to pressures to write anonymously, because writing philosophy
was seen as a masculine preserve. This lack of presence within the
standard locations of philosophy then means that women philosophers have often been invisible to the writers of histories of philosophy.
Moreover, philosophy as a discipline has been deﬁned in contrast
to the symbolically feminine: the emotions, certain styles of writing,
the practical. Despite the fact that female philosophers may not have
shown any more tendencies than male philosophers to write and
think in ways that are symbolically feminine, non-feminist interpreters have been ready to emphasize these elements in the work of female philosophers, and thus to dismiss or devalue their work. This
has occurred even though similar elements in the work of male philosophers have just as readily been ignored or explained away.
The recovery of women philosophers has brought with it discussions of the ways their work can inform present-day philosophizing,
as well as questions about the actual research and classiﬁcation involved in the process of recovery. The recovery of these women philosophers also raises more general philosophical questions about the
way the history of philosophy is approached: whether women in fact
philosophize differently and whether the nature of contemporary philosophy would have been different with a greater inclusion of these
women philosophers.
While the project of retrieval of women philosophers is a feminist
project in itself, few of the philosophers recovered can be easily described as feminist. However, assuming that women philosophers can
only be interested in feminist topics may serve to ghettoize historical

‘‘WOMEN’S WORK.’’ •

233

women philosophers. Instead it is essential to recognize the wide variety of philosophical areas in which women philosophers have written; this is necessary in order both to value their work itself and also
to produce a complete history of philosophy through the inclusion of
this work.
Based on the secondary literature, a standard list of women philosophers from the history of philosophy who have been seen as writing
feminist or proto-feminist work is as follows: Mary Astell, Simone
de Beauvoir, Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Christine de Pizan,
Anna Julia Cooper, Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, Charlotte Perkins
Gilman, Emma Goldman, Olympe de Gouges, Marie de Gournay, Catharine Macaulay, Bathsua Pell Makin, Damaris Cudworth Masham, Anna van Schurman, Sophia, Harriet Taylor
Mill, Anna Doyle Wheeler, and Mary Wollstonecraft.
At present, this list contains only two women of color: the Mexican
de la Cruz and the African American Cooper. There is little work
that can be identiﬁed as a feminist tradition within Latin American
philosophy. A black feminist intellectual tradition in the United
States stretching as far back as the early 1800s can be identiﬁed, but
the actual products of this tradition are often lost or fragmented.
Moreover, in part as a result of the explicit or implicit exclusion of
these thinkers from the intellectual and academic worlds of their contemporaries, this tradition merged intellectual and activist work.
Given standard deﬁnitions of philosophical theorizing, this merger
then further serves to keep nineteenth-century African American
feminist thinkers located outside the history of philosophy. Recently
there have been signs that this trend may be reversed; one particular
example is a renewed interest in the work of the nineteenth-century
African American philosopher Cooper.
‘‘WOMEN’S WORK.’’ See DIVISION OF LABOR, SEXUAL.

Bibliography

The bibliography is separated into four main sections. The ﬁrst section
includes general works in feminist philosophy and theory. The second
deals with concepts and terms in current use in feminist philosophy.
The titles listed in this section should be fairly self-explanatory. The
third section covers the various ﬁelds within feminist philosophy. The
number of included works varies for these ﬁelds according to the newness of or level of interest in a particular ﬁeld. The fourth section lists
works of individual philosophers and is predominantly a bibliography
of feminist interpretations of canonical philosophers and early feminist
philosophers. It is substantially longer than the others; in philosophy—
perhaps more than in many other disciplines—we study the history of
our discipline itself. Relatively few works on individual contemporary
feminist philosophers are included. The reason for this is that most feminist philosophers are engaged in a collective enterprise; thus the contributions of each individual are best seen as subsumed into the larger
political and intellectual enterprise.
A comprehensive collection of articles on feminist philosophy can be
found in A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, edited by Alison Jaggar
and Iris Marion Young. The volume contains articles written by experts
in their particular subject areas within feminist philosophy. The general
categories are the history of Western philosophy; feminist philosophy
from outside the West; knowledge and nature; religion; subjectivity and
embodiment, art; ethics; society; politics. Within each of these categories, there are a number of articles on the important issues of each subﬁeld. The collection is not committed to any particular school of
thought or methodology; its commitment is to an understanding of feminist philosophy as an identiﬁable and distinct branch of philosophy. It
is the most thorough collection of articles on feminist philosophy thus
far.
235

236 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, edited by
Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby, contains a series of articles that
cover the history of philosophy; epistemology; language; metaphysics;
psychoanalysis; philosophy of mind; philosophy of science; political
philosophy; ethics. The articles on philosophy of mind and metaphysics
are particularly useful, as these subjects are rarely covered in other collections. The general philosophical approach of this collection is
Anglo-American analytic philosophy. One weakness of the collection is
that it does not treat feminist philosophy as an identiﬁable and distinct
philosophy; rather, the contributors aim to explore the role of feminism
in philosophy: how feminist concerns can illuminate mainstream philosophy.
There is a useful collection of articles in the journal Metaphilosophy
that discuss the state of feminist philosophy in the 1990s. These articles
are by the American feminist philosophers Claudia Card, Ruth Ginzberg, Naomi Scheman, Nancy Tuana, and Margaret Urban Walker.
The different approaches to feminist philosophical thought are postmodernist, French feminist, and analytic. In works written in English,
analytic philosophy is the dominant philosophical approach. The result
of this is that feminist philosophers from the analytic tradition rarely
explain this tradition or how their work is a part of it. For the novice
reader, therefore, an overview of the analytic tradition and the approach
of feminist philosophy from this tradition can be helpful. The clearest
account of the subject ﬁeld of analytic feminism and its methodology
is the series of articles in a special issue of Hypatia edited by Ann Cudd
and Virginia Klenk.
Luce Irigaray is usually seen as the central ﬁgure of French feminist
philosophy; her work has also inﬂuenced some of the recent developments in Anglophone analytic philosophy. However, Irigaray’s work is
deliberately ambiguous, and it is hard to read even for the professional
philosopher. The best way of approaching her thought is by reading the
fairly lucid account of it in Elizabeth Grosz’s Sexual Subversions:
Three French Feminists.
There is still not much published on postmodernist feminism in English. Moreover, what there is tends to be monographs on the subject
rather than introductions to the subject ﬁeld. Two works that function
reasonably well to provide an introduction are Jane Flax’s Thinking
Fragments: Psychoanalysis, Feminism, and Postmodernism in the Con-

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

237

temporary West, and Feminism/Postmodernism, edited by Linda Nicholson.
Pragmatist feminism is still in the early stages of development; thus
there is relatively little work in this ﬁeld. The central resource for the
explanation of the importance of the American pragmatist tradition for
feminist philosophy is the work of Charlene Haddock Seigfried.
Thus far, feminist philosophers have tended to be white women. The
major works by black feminist philosophers, or social critics who have
inﬂuenced feminist philosophy, are Angela Davis, Women, Race &
Class; bell hooks, Ain’t I A Woman? Black Women and Feminism, and
Feminist Theory from Margin to Center; Patricia Hill Collins, Black
Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment.
Very little work is available on feminist philosophy outside the West.
The main resources are in the section of Jaggar and Young’s A Companion to Feminist Philosophy on Africa, Asia, Latin America, and Eastern
Europe. Nanette Funk has edited a ‘‘special cluster’’ in European feminist philosophy for Hypatia, and O. Vorinina has written on East European philosophy. Xiao Jiang Li has written monographs on Chinese
feminism that are of interest to philosophers. Ofelia Schutte, D. H. Mafﬁa, and M. Santa Cruz have written on Latin American feminist philosophy.
In terms of feminist theory more generally, Alison Jaggar’s Feminist
Politics and Human Nature is the central contribution to discussion of
the different feminist theories deﬁned as political philosophy. Although
it contains a rather dense account of feminist political philosophy, it is
rewarding for readers at all levels. It is important to note, however, that
Jaggar does not intend to remain neutral on the merits of each theory:
she argues for socialist feminism as the most adequate form of feminist
theory at the present time.
In the subject ﬁeld of aesthetics, the recommended title for the most
comprehensive and accessible overview of this ﬁeld is the edited collection by Hilde Hein and Carolyn Korsmeyer, Aesthetics in Feminist Perspective. The editors’ introduction offers a clear overview of the subject
ﬁeld; the collection itself covers questions of the nature of art and its
interpretation, as well as analyses of traditional philosophical aesthetics. This collection is from 1993, and the general reader may ﬁnd books
and articles from the late 1980s and the early 1990s the most accessible.

238 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

There is a tendency for the most recent works to be written for the professional philosopher.
There is very little work in feminist philosophy of education. The
main work is being done by Jane Roland Martin, who writes on the
tradition of philosophy of education, and on a feminist rethinking of
contemporary educational practices. Martin’s work is appropriate for
the reader without a philosophical background.
The subject area of the environment and nature is dominated by ecofeminist thought. The best introduction to ecofeminism is Ynestra
King’s article ‘‘The Ecology of Feminism and the Feminism of Ecology’’; King’s article is clear and covers all the central elements of
ecofeminist thought. For the reader who has some knowledge of ecofeminist thought, works by Vandana Shiva are important, as she provides analyses of both theory and practice. The reader should also
consider the titles listed for Francis Bacon, as he is credited with the
development of our modern concepts of nature.
Epistemology and philosophy of science make up one of the central
subject ﬁelds in feminist philosophy, and the number of titles listed in
this section reﬂect this. The most accessible introduction to this ﬁeld is
Lorraine Code’s What Can She Know? Feminist Theory and the Construction of Knowledge, where she sets up the central issue for feminist
theory of knowledge: is the sex of the knower epistemologically signiﬁcant? Sandra Harding’s earlier works and Lynn Nelson’s Who
Knows: From Quine to a Feminist Empiricism provide accounts of the
two main positions within analytic feminist philosophy. These works
are important in the ﬁeld but may require the reader to have some
background in philosophy. Elizabeth Anderson offers a concise overview of postmodern feminist approaches to questions of knowledge in
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (http://plato.stanford.edu/
archives/sum2004/entries/feminism-epistemology/).
Phyllis Rooney’s articles on contemporary work on the concept of
reason and Genevieve Lloyd’s account of the history of the concept,
The Man of Reason: ‘‘Male’’ and ‘‘Female’’ in Western Philosophy,
provide useful accompaniments for a reader’s introduction to the ﬁelds
of epistemology and philosophy of science.
Patricia Hill Collins offers the only systematic account of black feminist epistemology in her book Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge,

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

239

Consciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment. This is a central reading for its contribution to the more speciﬁc area of black feminist philosophy, as well as to epistemological thought more generally. This
work is easily accessible to the novice. An engaging account of nonWestern feminist epistemology is Jane Duran’s Worlds of Knowing:
Global Feminist Epistemologies.
Feminist ethics is the major subject ﬁeld of feminist philosophy, as
the number of titles listed in this section attest. Rosmarie Tong’s introduction to the subject ﬁeld of feminist ethics, Feminine and Feminist
Ethics, is indispensable, and it should be of interest for readers at all
levels. The collection edited by Claudia Card, Feminist Ethics, and the
collection edited by Eva Kittay and Diana Tietjens Meyers, Feminist
Morality: Transforming Culture, Society, and Politics, both contain a
series of informative and interesting articles on speciﬁc feminist ethical
issues. Susan Sherwin is the leader in the subﬁeld of bioethics, and her
work is vital for any exploration of this area. The psychologist Carol
Gilligan’s work on the ethics of care is important for the reader who
wishes to explore this area in depth. The more casual reader need not
have this background and will ﬁnd the work of Virginia Held and Joan
Tronto on the ethics of care useful as an introduction to and an examination of this type of ethical theory. Patricia Hill Collins offers the most
comprehensive and persuasive account of black feminist ethics. Katie G.
Cannon’s Black Womanist Ethics is considerably narrower in its scope
and tends to offer more of a personal account of black feminist ethics.
Sarah Lucia Hoagland’s work on lesbian ethics provides a solid reconceptualizing of ethical theory that is accessible for both the casual and
the professional reader.
In the ﬁeld of feminist history of philosophy, Beverly Clack’s Misogyny in the Western Philosophical Tradition can provide an introduction
to the issue of sexism in the canon for the reader new to philosophy.
On the whole, Clack does not offer an account that goes much beyond
this single issue. Nancy Tuana’s Woman and the History of Philosophy
requires some knowledge of philosophy on the part of the reader; however, it is signiﬁcantly rewarding as an introduction to male bias in the
philosophical tradition. For readers at all levels, Charlotte Witt’s ‘‘Feminist History of Philosophy’’ is the recommended reading on this subject; it provides a clear and comprehensive guide to all the different

240 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

approaches in this subject area. It can be found in The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2004/
entries/feminism-femhist). For work that is representative of French
philosophical thinking, Penelope Deutscher’s Yielding Gender: Feminism, Deconstruction and the History of Philosophy and Michèle Le
Doeuff’s The Philosophical Imaginary are interesting works; however,
the latter’s work is more accessible to the professional philosopher with
knowledge of both the history of philosophy and French feminism. For
information about women philosophers from the history of philosophy,
Mary Ellen Waithe’s edited history, A History of Women Philosophy, is
incomparably the best. The reader should also consider titles that are
listed for individual philosophers in the fourth section of the bibliography; these works are typically aimed at canon revision.
Work in logic and philosophy of language in the analytic tradition
tends to be very technical; work grounded in postmodern thought (such
as the work of Luce Irigaray and Judith Butler) can be complicated. The
casual or novice reader is advised not to read such works. The most
accessible title for this reader is the special issue on philosophy of language in Hypatia edited by Dale Bauer and Kelly Oliver. For the professional reader, most of the titles listed in the bibliography are important
for an examination of philosophy of language.
In the ﬁeld of metaphysics, Charlotte Witt’s ‘‘Feminist Metaphysics’’
is the central reading for all levels. On the whole most of the other titles
listed for this subject area require an understanding of the major questions in this ﬁeld. Marilyn Frye’s The Politics of Reality: Essays in
Feminist Theory is accessible but may only be of interest for the reader
who is politically feminist.
Janice Moulton’s ‘‘A Paradigm of Philosophy: The Adversary
Method’’ is an important text that examines standard analytic methodology; it should be of interest to any reader with a passing knowledge
of philosophy. Joyce Trebilcot’s ‘‘Ethics of Method’’ is of interest as it
offers new, feminist ways of thinking about methodology; it is accessible to the novice reader but may be controversial for the non-feminist
professional philosopher.
The best introductions to feminist work in the philosophy of mind
are Susan James’s ‘‘Feminism in Philosophy of Mind: The Question of
Personal Identity’’ and Naomi Scheman’s ‘‘Feminism in Philosophy of
Mind: Against Physicalism.’’ However, the reader should note that

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

241

these articles are part of a collection, The Cambridge Companion to
Feminism in Philosophy, that examines what feminism can provide for
philosophy, rather than constructing a speciﬁcally feminist philosophy
of mind. The authors assume that their readers will have a thorough
knowledge of the subject area. Maria Lugones’s ‘‘Playfulness, ‘World’Traveling, and Loving Perception’’ offers a non-technical revisionist account of the classic issue in the philosophy of mind: personal identity.
Thought in feminist philosophy of religion is dominated by the work
of Mary Daly. Beyond God the Father: Toward a Theory of Women’s
Liberation is the germinal work in this ﬁeld. Most of this work should
be accessible to any reader who has some knowledge of both the Christian tradition and feminism. The reader should note that a collection of
a comprehensive selection of articles on Mary Daly, Feminist Interpretations of Mary Daly, is listed in the individual philosophers’ section
of the bibliography. There is very little work on religions other than
Christianity; recommended articles are Baccarat Tanya’s ‘‘Islam’’ and
Rachel Adler’s ‘‘Judaism.’’ There is also very little work by feminists
of color on philosophy of religion. Toilette Eugene offers the most systemized account of a revisionist black feminist philosophy of religion;
her work is accessible for readers at all levels.
Many of the titles listed in the section on political and social philosophy are works on speciﬁc applied issues in this subject area; these titles
should be self explanatory. Two useful collections that cover theoretical
aspects of political philosophy are Feminist Interpretations and Political Theory, edited by Mary Lyndon Stanley and Carole Pateman, and
Reconstructing Political Theory: Feminist Perspectives, edited by Mary
Lyndon and Uma Narayan. Carole Pateman’s The Sexual Contract is
seen as one of the germinal works in feminist critique of classical political theory; it is necessary reading for the professional philosopher, and
should be both accessible and of interest to the new reader.
A central, excellent source on the Internet for overviews of the various ﬁelds of feminist philosophy is The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2004 edition), edited by Edward N. Zalta. The
Encyclopedia can be found at http://plato.stanford.edu/. All the entries
are written by experts in the ﬁeld. Some of the professional organizations for women feminist philosophers maintain websites. The Society
for Women in Philosophy (SWIP) can be found at www.uh.edu/⬃cfreelan/SWIP/. The site for the Canadian Society of Women in Philosophy

242 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

(CSWIP) is http://sbrennan.philosophy.arts.uwo.ca/cswip/. The Society
for the Study of Women Philosophers (SSWP) is located at http://
ksumail.kennesaw.edu/⬃ldamico/sswp.htm. The Society for Women’s
advancement in Philosophy (SWAP) is located at www.swapusa.org/.
Thewebsite for the Association for Feminist Ethics and Social Theory
(FEAST) is www.afeast.org.
GENERAL WORKS ON FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY
AND FEMINIST THEORY
Addelson, Kathryn Pyne. Impure Thoughts: Essays on Philosophy, Feminism, and
Ethics. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1992.
———. ‘‘Feminist Philosophy and the Women’s Movement.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 3
(1994): 216–24.
Al-Hibri, Azizah Y., and Margaret A. Simons, eds. Hypatia Reborn: Essays in Feminist Philosophy. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1990.
Anzaldúa, Gloria. Borderlands/La Frontera. San Francisco: Spinsters/Aunt Lute,
1987.
Battersby, Christine. ‘‘Recent Work in Feminist Philosophy.’’ Philosophical Books
(October 1991): 193–201.
Battersby, Christine, et al., eds. ‘‘Going Australian: Reconﬁguring Feminism and
Philosophy.’’ Special issue, Hypatia 15, no. 2 (2000).
Beauvoir, Simone de. The Second Sex. New York: Knopf, 1953.
Braidotti, R. Patterns of Dissonance: A Study of Women in Contemporary Philosophy. Cambridge, Mass.: Polity Press, 1991.
Butler, Judith. Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. New
York: Routledge, 1990.
———. Bodies That Matter: On the Discursive Limits of ‘‘Sex.’’ New York:
Routledge, 1993.
Card, Claudia, ed. Adventures in Lesbian Philosophy. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1994.
———. ‘‘Feminism and Philosophy in the Mid-Nineties: Taking Stock.’’ Metaphilosophy 27, nos. 1–2 (1996): 193–96.
Chodorow, Nancy. The Reproduction of Mothering: Psychoanalysis and the Sociology of Gender. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1978.
Cixous, Hélène. ‘‘The Laugh of the Medusa.’’ Trans. K. Cohen and P. Cohen. Signs
1, no. 4 (1979): 875–93.
Collins, Patricia Hill. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the
Politics of Empowerment. New York: Routledge, 1990.
Cudd, Ann, and Virginia Klenk, eds. Special issue on Analytic Feminism. Hypatia
10, no. 3 (1995).

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

243

Davis, Angela. Women, Race, and Class. New York: Random House, 1981.
Deutscher, Penelope, ed. Special issue on Contemporary French Women Philosophers. Hypatia 15, no. 4 (2000).
Ferguson, Ann. ‘‘Twenty Years of Feminist Philosophy.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 3 (1994):
197–215.
Flax, Jane. Thinking Fragments: Psychoanalysis, Feminism, and Postmodernism in
the Contemporary West. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1990.
Fricker, Miranda, and Jennifer Hornsby, eds. The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.
Funk, Nanette, ed. Special cluster on Eastern European Feminism. Hypatia 8, no. 4
(1993).
Funk, Nanette, and M. Mueller, eds. Gender Politics and Post-Communism. New
York: Routledge, 1993.
Garry, Ann, and Marilyn Pearsall, eds. Women, Knowledge, and Reality. Boston:
Unwin Hyman, 1989.
Ginzberg, Ruth. ‘‘The Future of Feminist Philosophy.’’ Metaphilosophy 27, nos.
1–2 (1996): 197–201.
Gould, Carol, ed. Beyond Domination: New Perspectives on Women and Philosophy. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Allanheld, 1984.
Gould, Carol, and Marx X. Wartofsky, eds. Women and Philosophy: Toward a Theory of Liberation. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1976.
Grifﬁths, Morwenna, and Margaret Whitford, eds. Feminist Perspectives in Philosophy. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988.
Grimshaw, Jane. Philosophy and Feminist Thinking. Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press, 1986.
Grosz, Elizabeth. Sexual Subversions: Three French Feminists. Sydney: Allen and
Unwin, 1989.
Havelkova, Hana. ‘‘Who Is Afraid of Feminist Philosophy?’’ Filosoﬁcky-Casopis
40, no. 5 (1992): 729–41.
Hekman, Susan. Gender and Knowledge: Elements of a Postmodern Feminism.
Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1990.
Hoagland, Sarah Lucia. Lesbian Ethics. Palo Alto, Calif.: Institute of Lesbian Studies, 1988.
hooks, bell. Ain’t I a Woman? Black Women and Feminism. Boston: Southend
Press, 1981.
———. Feminist Theory from Margin to Center. Boston: Southend Press, 1984.
Hudson-Weems, C. African Womanism: Reclaiming Ourselves. London: Bedford
Publications, 1996.
Irigaray, Luce. The Speculum of the Other Woman. Trans. G. Gill. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1985.
———. The Sex Which Is Not One. Trans. C. Porter and C. Burke. Ithaca, N.Y.:
Cornell University Press, 1985.
———. An Ethics of Sexual Difference. Trans. C. Burke and G. Gill. Ithaca, N.Y.:
Cornell University Press, 1993.

244 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Jaggar, Alison M. Feminist Politics and Human Nature. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and
Littleﬁeld, 1998.
Jaggar, Alison M., and Susan R. Bordo, eds. Gender/Body/Knowledge. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1989.
Jaggar, Alison, and Iris Marion Young, eds. A Companion to Feminist Philosophy.
Oxford: Blackwell, 1998.
Li, Xiao Jiang. Gender Gap. Beijing: Sanlian Publishing House, 1989.
———. Toward the Woman. Zhengzhou: Henan People’s Publishing House, 1993.
Lugones, Maria, and Elizabeth Spelman. ‘‘Have We Got a Theory for You!’’ In
Women and Values, ed. Marilyn Pearsall. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth, 1986.
19–31.
Mafﬁa, D. H. ‘‘De los Derechos Humanos a Los Derechos de las Humanas.’’ In
Capacitación Politica Para Mujeres: Género y Cambio Social en la Argentina
Actual, ed. D. H. Mafﬁa and C. Kuschnir. Buenos Aires: Feminaria Editora,
1994. 63–75.
Mahowald, Mary. Philosophy and Women. Indianapolis, Ind.: Hackett, 1983.
McAlister, Linda Lopez. ‘‘On the Possibility of Feminist Philosophy.’’ Hypatia 9,
no. 3 (1994): 188–96.
Mendus, Susan. ‘‘Recent Work in Feminist Philosophy.’’ Philosophical Quarterly
43 (1993): 513–19.
Nagl-Docekalova, Herta. ‘‘What Is Feminist Philosophy?’’ Filosoﬁcky-Casopis 40,
no. 5 (1992): 742–56.
Nagl-Docekal, Herta, and Cornelia Klinger, eds. Continental Philosophy in Feminist Perspective. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000.
Nicholson, Linda, ed. Feminism/Postmodernism. New York: Routledge, 1990.
Nye, Andrea. Feminist Theory and the Philosophies of Man. London: Croom Helm,
1988.
———. ‘‘It’s Not Philosophy.’’ Hypatia 13, no. 2 (1998): 107–15.
Richards, Janet Radcliffe. The Skeptical Feminist: A Philosophical Enquiry. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1980.
Santa Cruz, M., et al. Mujeres y Filosoﬁa (I): Teoriá ﬁlos óﬁcia de Género. Buenos
Aires: Centro Editor de América Latina, 1994.
Scheman, Naomi. ‘‘Panel on Feminist Philosophy in the 90s.’’ Metaphilosophy 27,
nos. 1–2 (1996): 209–13.
Schutte, Ofelia, ed. ‘‘Spanish and Latin American Feminist Philosophy.’’ Hypatia
9, no. 1 (1994): 142–94.
Seigfried, Charlene Haddock. Pragmatism and Feminism. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1996.
———, ed. Special issue on Feminism and Pragmatism. Hypatia 8, no. 2 (1993).
Shiva, Vandana. Staying Alive: Women, Ecology, and Development. New Delhi:
Kali for Women, 1998. Reprinted London: Zed Books, 1988.
Smith, B., ed. Philosophy and Political Change in Eastern Europe. La Salle, Ill.:
Hegler Institute, 1993.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

245

Tong, Rosmarie. Feminist Thought: A More Comprehensive Introduction. Boulder,
Colo.: Westview Press, 1998.
Tuana, Nancy. ‘‘A Roundtable on Feminism and Philosophy in the Mid-1990s.’’
Metaphilosophy 27, nos. 1–2 (1996): 218–21.
Tuana, Nancy, and Rosemarie Tong, eds. Feminism and Philosophy: Essential
Readings. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1995.
Vetterling-Braggin, Mary, et al., eds. Feminism and Philosophy. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1977.
Voronina, O. ‘‘Soviet Patriarchy: Past and Present.’’ Hypatia 8, no. 4 (1993): 97–
112.
Walker, Margaret Urban. ‘‘Some Thoughts on Feminists, Philosophy, and Feminist
Philosophy.’’ Metaphilosophy 27, nos. 1–2 (1996): 222–25.
Wylie, Alison. ‘‘Contemporary Feminist Philosophy.’’ Eidos 6 (1987): 215–29.
Young, Iris Marion. Throwing Like a Girl and Other Essays in Feminist Philosophy
and Social Theory. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1990.

CONCEPTS AND TERMS
Allen, Prudence. The Concept of Woman: The Aristotelian Revolution 750 BC–AD
1250. Montreal: Eden Press, 1985.
Bartky, Sandra Lee. ‘‘Body Politics.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed.
Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998: 321–29.
———. ‘‘Narcissism, Femininity, and Alienation.’’ Social Theory and Practice 8,
no. 2 (1982): 127–43.
Beauvoir, Simone de. La Force de l’Age (The Coming of Age). Trans. Peter Green.
Cleveland: World Publishing, 1962.
Collins, Patricia Hill. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the
Politics of Empowerment. New York: Routledge, 1990.
Faludi, Susan. Backlash: The Undeclared War against Women. New York: Crown,
1991.
Ferguson, Ann. ‘‘Androgyny as an Ideal for Human Development.’’ In Feminism
and Philosophy, ed. Mary Vetterling-Braggin, Frederick A. Elliston, and Jane
English. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1977.
Flax, Jane. ‘‘Political Philosophy and the Patriarchal Unconscious: A Psychoanalytic Perspective on Epistemology and Metaphysics.’’ In Discovering Reality:
Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht: Reidel,
1983. 245–79.
Foreman, Ann. Femininity as Alienation: Women and the Family in Marxism and
Psychoanalysis. London: Pluto Press, 1977.
Frye, Marilyn. The Politics of Reality: Essays in Feminist Theory. Freedom, Calif.:
Crossing Press, 1983.

246 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Gamble, Sarah, ed. The Routledge Critical Dictionary of Feminism and Postfeminism. New York: Routledge, 2000.
Gilman, Charlotte Perkins. The Man Made World or Our Androcentric Culture.
London: Fisher Unwin, 1911.
Jaggar, Alison M. Feminist Politics and Human Nature. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and
Littleﬁeld, 1983.
Keller, Evelyn Fox. ‘‘Gender and Science.’’ In Discovering Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht: Reidel, 1983.
187–205.
Lear, Marsha. ‘‘The Second Feminist Wave.’’ New York Times Magazine, March,
10, 1968.
Lloyd, Genevieve. The Man of Reason: ‘‘Male’’ and ‘‘Female’’ in Western Philosophy. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1984.
Marx, Karl. Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844. Ed. and intro. Dirk J.
Struik. New York: International Publishers, 1964.
———. Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, vol. 1. New York: International
Publishers, 1967.
Mumm, Maggie, ed. The Dictionary of Feminist Theory. Columbus: Ohio State
University Press, 1989.
O’ Brien, Mary. The Politics of Reproduction. Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul,
1981.
Rich, Adrienne. ‘‘Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Existence.’’ Signs 5,
no. 4 (1980): 631–60.
Scheman, Naomi. ‘‘Individualism and the Objects of Psychology.’’ In Discovering
Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and
Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht:
Reidel, 1983. 225–44.
Spelman, Elizabeth V. Inessential Woman: Problems of Exclusion in Feminist
Thought. Boston: Beacon Press, 1988.
———. ‘‘Anger and Insubordination.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed.
Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989. 263–73.
Trebilcot, Joyce. ‘‘Two Forms of Androgynism.’’ Journal of Social Philosophy 8
(January 1977): 4–8.
Tuana, Nancy. Woman and the History of Philosophy. St. Paul, Minn.: Paragon,
1992.
Vetterling-Braggin, Mary, ed. ‘‘Femininity,’’ ‘‘Masculinity,’’ and ‘‘Androgyny’’: A
Modern Philosophical Discussion. Totowa, N.J.: Littleﬁeld, Adams, 1982.
Vetterling-Braggin, Mary, Frederick A. Elliston, and Jane English, eds. Feminism
and Philosophy. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1977.
Young, Iris Marion. ‘‘Socialist Feminism and the Limits of the Dual Systems Theory.’’ Socialist Review 50–51 (1980): 169–88.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

247

FIELDS WITHIN FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY
Aesthetics
Battersby, Christine. Gender and Genius. London: Women’s Press, 1989.
Brand, Peg, and Mary Devereaux, eds. Special issue on Women, Art, and Aesthetics
Hypatia 18, no. 4 (2003).
Brand, Peg, and Carolyn Korsmeyer, eds. Feminism and Tradition in Aesthetics.
University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
Freeland, Cynthia. ‘‘Film Theory.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed.
Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 353–60.
Hein, Hilde, and Carolyn Korsmeyer, eds. Aesthetics in Feminist Perspective.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1993.
Klinger, Cornelia. ‘‘Aesthetics.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 343–52.
Nochlin, Linda. ‘‘Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?’’ In Art and
Sexual Politics, ed. T. B. Hess and E. C. Baker. New York: Collier Books, 1971.
145–78.
Pearsall, Marilyn, ed. Women and Values, chap. 7. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth,
1986.

Education
Laird, S. ‘‘Reforming ‘Women’s True Profession’: A Case for ‘Feminist Pedagogy’
in Teacher Education?’’ Harvard Educational Review 58, no. 4 (1988): 449–63.
Leach, Mary. ‘‘Mothers of Intervention: Women’s Writing in the Philosophy of Education.’’ Educational Theory 41, no. 3 (1991): 287–300.
Martin, Jane Roland. ‘‘Bringing Women into Educational Thought.’’ Educational
Theory 34, no. 4 (1984): 341–53.
———. ‘‘Education.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar
and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 441–47.
———. Reclaiming a Conversation: The Ideal of the Educated Woman. New
Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1985.
Nicholson, Linda. ‘‘Women and Schooling.’’ Educational Theory 30, no. 3 (1980):
225–34.
Noddings, Nel. The Challenge to Care in Schools. New York: Teacher’s College
Press, 1992.

Environment and Nature
Adams, Carol J. The Sexual Politics of Meat: A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory. New York: Continuum, 1990.
d’Eaubonne, Françoise. Le Feminisme ou La Mort. Paris: Pierre-Horay, 1974.

248 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Kheel, Marti. ‘‘The Liberation of Nature: A Circular Affair.’’ Environmental Ethics
7 (1985): 135–49.
King, Ynestra. ‘‘The Ecology of Feminism and the Feminism of Ecology.’’ In Healing the Wounds, ed. J. Plant. Philadelphia: New Society Publishers, 1989. 18–28.
Merchant, Carolyn. The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientiﬁc Revolution. San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1980.
Mies, Maria, and Vandana Shiva. Ecofeminism. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1993.
Plumwood, Val. ‘‘Ecofeminism: An Overview and Discussion of Positions and Arguments.’’ Australasian Journal of Philosophy 64 (1986): 120–38.
———. ‘‘Nature, Self, and Gender: Feminism, Environmental Philosophy, and the
Critique of Rationalism.’’ Hypatia 6, no. 1 (1991): 3–27.
Shiva, Vandana. Staying Alive: Women, Ecology, and Development. New Delhi:
Kali for Women, 1998. Reprinted London: Zed Books, 1988.
Slicer, Deborah. ‘‘Your Daughter or Your Dog?’’ Hypatia 6, no. 1 (1991): 108–24.
Warren, Karen. ‘‘The Power and Promise of Ecological Feminism.’’ Environmental
Ethics 12, no. 2 (1990): 121–46.
———. ed. Ecological Feminist Philosophies. London: Routledge, 1994.

Epistemology and Philosophy of Science
Alcoff, Linda. Real Knowing: New Versions of Coherence Epistemology. Ithaca,
N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996.
Alcoff, Linda, and Elizabeth Potter, eds. Feminist Epistemologies. New York:
Routledge, 1993.
Antony, Louise, and Charlotte Witt, eds. A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays
on Reason and Objectivity. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1993.
Benhabib, Seyla, Judith Butler, Drucilla Cornell, and Nancy Fraser. Feminist Contentions: A Philosophical Exchange. New York: Routledge, 1995.
Blenky, Mary Field, Blythe McVicker Clinchy, Nancy Rule Goldberger, and Jill
Mattuck Tarule. Women’s Ways of Knowing: The Development of Self, Voice, and
Mind. New York: Basic Books, 1986.
Bordo, Susan. The Flight to Objectivity. Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1987.
Braidotti, Rosi. Patterns of Dissonance: A Study of Women in Contemporary Philosophy. Cambridge, Mass.: Polity Press, 1991.
Code, Lorraine. What Can She Know? Feminist Theory and the Construction of
Knowledge. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1991.
———. ‘‘Epistemology.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998.
Collins, Patricia Hill. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the
Politics of Empowerment. New York: Routledge, 1990.
Duran, Jane. Worlds of Knowing: Global Feminist Epistemologies. New York:
Routledge, 2001.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

249

Fricker, Miranda. ‘‘Epistemic Oppression and Epistemic Privilege.’’ In ‘‘Civilization and Oppression,’’ ed. Catherine Wilson. Canadian Journal of Philosophy,
supp. vol. (1999): 191–210.
———. ‘‘Feminism in Epistemology: Pluralism without Postmodernism.’’ In The
Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.
Garry, Ann, and Marilyn Pearsall, eds. Women, Knowledge, and Reality. Boston:
Unwin Hyman, 1989.
Haack, Susan, ed. Feminist Epistemology: For and Against. Special issue, Monist
77, no. 4 (1994).
Harding, Sandra. Is Science Multicultural? Postcolonialisms, Feminisms, and Epistemologies. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1998.
———. The Science Question in Feminism. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
1986.
———. Whose Science? Whose Knowledge? Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
1991.
Harding, Sandra, and Merrill B. Hintikka, eds. Discovering Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science. Dordrecht: Reidel, 1983.
Hartsock, Nancy. The Feminist Standpoint Revisited and Other Essays. Boulder,
Colo.: Westview Press, 1998.
Haslanger, Sally. ‘‘On Being Objective and Being Objectiﬁed.’’ In A Mind of One’s
Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity, ed. Louise Antony and Charlotte Witt. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1993.
———, ed. ‘‘Feminist Perspectives on Language, Knowledge, and Reality.’’ Special issue, Philosophical Topics 23, no. 2 (1995).
Hekman, Susan J. Gender and Knowledge. Boston: Northeastern University Press,
1990.
———. ‘‘Truth and Methods: Feminist Standpoint Revisited.’’ Signs 22, no. 2
(1997): 341–65.
Jaggar, Alison M. Feminist Politics and Human Nature. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and
Littleﬁeld, 1983.
Jaggar, Alison M., and Susan R. Bordo, eds. Gender/Body/Knowledge. New Brunswick. N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1989.
Lennon, Kathleen, and Margaret Whitford, eds. Knowing the Difference: Feminist
Perspectives in Epistemology. London: Routledge, 1994.
Lloyd, Genevieve. The Man of Reason: ‘‘Male’’ and ‘‘Female’’ in Western Philosophy. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1984.
Narayan, Uma. ‘‘The Project of Feminist Epistemology: Perspectives from a Nonwestern Feminist.’’ In Gender/Body/Knowledge, ed. Alison M. Jaggar and Susan
R. Bordo. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1989. 256–69.
Nelson, Lynn Hankinson. Who Knows: From Quine to a Feminist Empiricism. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1990.

250 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Nicholson, Linda, ed. Feminism/Postmodernism. London: Routledge, 1990.
Rooney, Phyllis. ‘‘Gendered Reason: Sex Metaphor and Conceptions of Reason.’’
Hypatia 6, no. 2 (1991): 77–103.
———. ‘‘Recent Work in Feminist Discussions of Reason.’’ In American Philosophical Quarterly 31, no. 1 (1994): 1–21.
Scheman, Naomi. Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege. Routledge, 1993.
Stanley, Liz, and Sue Wise. Breaking Out Again: Feminist Ontology and Epistemology. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1983.
Whitford, Margaret. ‘‘Luce Irigaray’s Critique of Rationality.’’ In Feminist Perspectives in Philosophy, ed. Morwenna Grifﬁths and Margaret Whitford. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988.

Ethics
Benhabib, Seyla. Situating the Self: Gender, Community, and Postmodernism in
Contemporary Ethics. New York: Routledge, 1992.
Blum, Larry, Marcia Homiak, Judy Housman, and Naomi Scheman. ‘‘Altruism and
Women’s Oppression.’’ Philosophical Forum 5, nos. 1–2 (1973–4): 196–221.
Cannon, Katie G. Black Womanist Ethics. Atlanta: Scholars Press, 1988.
Card, Claudia, ed. Feminist Ethics. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1991.
———. Adventures in Lesbian Philosophy. Bloomington: Indiana University Press,
1994.
Christman, John. ‘‘Feminism and Autonomy.’’ In Nagging Questions: Feminist Ethics in Everyday Life, ed. Dana E. Bushell. Lanham, Md.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld,
1995. 17–39.
Collins, Patricia Hill. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the
Politics of Empowerment. New York: Routledge, 2000.
Daly, Mary. Gyn/ecology: The Metaethics of Radical Feminism. Boston: Beacon
Press, 1978.
Friedman, Marilyn. What Are Friends For? Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
1993.
———. ‘‘Impartiality.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar
and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 393–401.
———. ‘‘Feminism in Ethics: Conceptions of Autonomy.’’ In The Cambridge
Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. 205–24.
Gilligan, Carol. In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s Development. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1982.
Gilligan, Carol, Janie Victoria Ward, and Jill McLean Taylor, eds. Mapping the
Moral Domain. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1988.
Grifﬁths, Morwena. Feminisms and the Self: The Web of Identity. London:
Routledge, 1995.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

251

Grimshaw, Jean. Philosophy and Feminist Thinking. Minneapolis: University of
Minnesota Press, 1986.
Hekman, Susan. Moral Voices, Moral Selves: Carol Gilligan and Feminist Moral
Theory. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
Held, Virginia. Feminist Morality: Transforming Culture, Society, and Politics.
Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1993.
———, ed. Justice and Care: Essential Readings in Feminist Ethics. Boulder,
Colo.: Westview Press, 1995.
Hill, Sharon Bishop. ‘‘Self-Determination and Autonomy.’’ In Today’s Moral Problems, 2nd ed., ed. Richard Wasserstrom. New York: Macmillan, 1979. 118–33.
Hoagland, Sarah Lucia. Lesbian Ethics. Palo Alto, Calif.: Institute of Lesbian Studies, 1988.
———. ‘‘Lesbian Ethics.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 402–10.
Jaggar, Alison, ed. Living with Contradictions: Controversies in Feminist Social
Ethics. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1994.
Kittay, Eva, and Diana Tietjens Meyers, eds. Women and Moral Theory. Savage,
Md.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1987.
Larrabee, Mary Jeanne, ed. An Ethic of Care: Feminist and Interdisciplinary Perspectives. New York: Routledge, 1993.
Mackenzie, Catriona, and Natalie Stoljar, eds. Relational Autonomy. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2000.
Meyers, Diana Tietjens. Self, Society, and Personal Choice. New York: Columbia
University Press, 1989.
———. Feminists Rethink the Self. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1997.
———. ‘‘Agency.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and
Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 372–82.
Noddings, Nel. Caring: A Feminine Approach to Ethics and Moral Education.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984.
Ruddick, Sara. Maternal Thinking: Towards a Politics of Peace. New York: Beacon
Press, 1989.
Shanner, Laura. ‘‘Procreation.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison
Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 429–37.
Sherwin, Susan. ‘‘Abortion through a Feminist Ethics Lens.’’ Dialogue 30 (1991):
327–42.
———. No Longer Patient: Feminist Ethics and Health Care. Philadelphia: Temple
University Press, 1992.
———. ‘‘Health Care.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar
and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 420–28.
Shildrick, Margrit. Leaky Bodies and Boundaries: Feminism, Postmodernism and
(Bio)ethics. New York: Routledge, 1997.
Tong, Rosemarie. Feminine and Feminist Ethics. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth,
1993.

252 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

———.Feminist Thought: A More Comprehensive Introduction. Boulder, Colo.:
Westview Press, 1998.
Tronto, Joan. Moral Boundaries: A Political Argument for an Ethic of Care. New
York: Routledge, 1993.
Walker, Margaret. Moral Understandings: A Feminist Study in Ethics. New York
Routledge, 1998.
Wolf, Susan, ed. Feminism and Bioethics. New York: Oxford University Press,
1996.

History of Philosophy
Atherton, Margaret, ed. Women Philosophers of the Early Modern Period. Indianapolis, Ind.: Hackett, 1994.
Bar On, Bat-Ami. Modern Engendering: Critical Feminist Readings in Modern
Western Philosophy. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.
Clack, Beverley. Misogyny in the Western Philosophical Tradition. New York:
Macmillan, 1999.
Conley, John J. The Suspicion of Virtue: Women Philosophers in Neoclassical
France. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2002.
Deutscher, Penelope. Yielding Gender: Feminism, Deconstruction, and the History
of Philosophy. London: Routledge, 1997.
Le Doeuff, Michèle. The Philosophical Imaginary. Trans. Colin Gordon. Stanford,
Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1989.
Gardner, Catherine Villanueva. Women Philosophers: Genre and the Boundaries of
Philosophy. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 2004.
Grimshaw, Jean. Feminist Philosophers: Women’s Perspectives on Philosophical
Traditions. Brighton, U.K.: Wheatsheaf Books, 1986.
Kennedy, Ellen, and Susan Mendus, eds. Women in Western Political Philosophy,
Brighton, U.K.: Wheatsheaf Books, 1987.
Lloyd, Genevieve. The Man of Reason: ‘‘Male’’ and ‘‘Female’’ in Western Philosophy. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1984.
Ménage, Gilles. The History of Women Philosophers [1690]. Trans. B. Zedler. Lanham, Md.: University Press of America, 1984.
Okin, Susan Moller. Women in Western Political Thought. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press, 1979.
Tougas, Cecile, and Sara Ebenreck, eds. Presenting Women Philosophers. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2000.
Tuana, Nancy. Woman and the History of Philosophy. St. Paul, Minn.: Paragon,
1992.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. 4 vols. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1987–95.
Wider, Kathleen. ‘‘Women Philosophers in the Ancient Greek World: Donning the
Mantle.’’ Hypatia 1 (1986): 21–62.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

253

Logic and Philosophy of Language
Bauer, Dale M., and Kelly Oliver, eds. Special issue on Philosophy and Language.
Hypatia 7, no. 2 (1997).
Butler, Judith. Bodies That Matter: On the Discursive Limits of ‘‘Sex.’’ New York:
Routledge, 1993.
Cixous. Hélène. ‘‘The Laugh of the Medusa.’’ Trans. K. Cohen and P. Cohen. Signs
1, no. 4 (1979): 875–93.
Daly, Mary. Gyn/Ecology: The Metaethics of Radical Feminism. Boston: Beacon
Press, 1978.
Daly, Mary, and Jane Caputi. Websters’ First New Intergalactic Wickedary of the
English Language. Boston: Beacon Press, 1987.
Henderson, Mae Gwendolyn. ‘‘Speaking in Tongues: Dialogics, Dialectics, and the
Black Woman Writer’s Literary Tradition.’’ In Reading Black, Reading Feminist,
ed. Henry Louis Gates Jr. New York: Penguin Books, 1990. 116–42.
Irigaray, Luce. This Sex Which Is Not One. Trans. C. Porter and C. Burke. Ithaca,
N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1985.
MacKinnon, Catherine. Only Words. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press,
1993.
Moulton, Janice. ‘‘The Myth of the Neutral ‘Man.’ ’’ In Women, Knowledge, and
Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989.
219–32.
Nye, Andrea. ‘‘The Voice of the Serpent: French Feminism and Philosophy of Language.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall.
Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989. 233–49.
———. Words of Power. New York: Routledge, 1990.
———. ‘‘Semantics.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar
and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 153–61.
Tirrell, Lynne. ‘‘Language and Power.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy,
ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 139–52.
Vetterling-Braggin, Mary, ed. Sexist Language: A Modern Philosophical Analysis.
Totowa, N.J.: Littleﬁeld, Adams, 1981.

Metaphysics
Ferguson, Ann. ‘‘A Feminist Aspect Theory of the Self.’’ In Women, Knowledge,
and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989.
93–107.
Flax, Jane. ‘‘Political Philosophy and the Patriarchal Unconscious: A Psychoanalytic Perspective on Epistemology and Metaphysics.’’ In Discovering Reality:
Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht: Reidel,
1983. 245–79.

254 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Frye, Marilyn. ‘‘To See and Be Seen: The Politics of Reality.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman,
1989. 77–92.
Haslanger, Sally. ‘‘Feminism in Metaphysics: Negotiating the Natural.’’ In The
Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. 107–26.
Witt, Charlotte. ‘‘Feminist Metaphysics.’’ In A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity, ed. Louise Antony and Charlotte Witt. Boulder,
Colo.: Westview Press, 1993. 302–18.
Whitbeck, Caroline. ‘‘A Different Reality: Feminist Ontology.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman,
1989. 51–76.

Methodology
Garry, Ann. ‘‘A Minimally Decent Philosophical Method? Analytic Philosophy and
Feminism.’’ Hypatia 10, no. 3 (1995): 7–30.
Moulton, Janice. ‘‘A Paradigm of Philosophy: The Adversary Method.’’ In Women,
Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin
Hyman, 1989. 5–20.
Sherwin, Susan. ‘‘Philosophical Methodology and Feminist Methodology: Are
They Compatible?’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989. 21–36.
Trebilcot, Joyce. ‘‘Ethics of Method.’’ In Feminist Ethics, ed. Claudia Card. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1991. 45–51.

Philosophy of Mind
Butler, Judith. ‘‘Gendering the Body: Beauvoir’s Philosophical Contribution.’’ In
Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston:
Unwin Hyman, 1989. 253–62.
James, Susan. ‘‘Feminism in Philosophy of Mind: The Question of Personal Identity.’’ In The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda
Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.
29–48.
Lugones, Maria. ‘‘Playfulness, ‘World’-Traveling, and Loving Perception.’’ In
Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston:
Unwin Hyman, 1989. 275–90.
Scheman, Naomi. ‘‘Feminism in Philosophy of Mind: Against Physicalism.’’ In The
Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. 49–67.
Schott, Robin May. ‘‘Resurrecting Embodiment: Toward a Feminist Materialism.’’

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

255

In A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity, ed. Louise
Antony and Charlotte Witt. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1993. 319–34.
Spelman, Elizabeth V. ‘‘Anger and Insubordination.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and
Reality, ed. Ann Garry and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989.
263–73.

Philosophy of Religion
Adler, Rachel. Engendering Judaism: Inclusive Ethics and Theology. Philadelphia:
Jewish Publication Society, 1997.
———. ‘‘Judaism.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and
Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 245–52.
Daly, Mary. Beyond God the Father: Toward a Theory of Women’s Liberation.
Boston: Beacon Press, 1973.
Eugene, Toinette. ‘‘While Love Is Unfashionable: Ethical Implications of Black
Spirituality and Sexuality.’’ In Women, Knowledge, and Reality, ed. Ann Garry
and Marilyn Pearsall. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989. 313–30.
Frankenberry, Nancy, and Marilyn Thie, eds. Special issue on Feminist Philosophy
of Religion. Hypatia 9, no. 4 (1994).
Garry, Ann, and Marilyn Pearsall, eds. ‘‘Feminist Philosophy of Religion.’’ In
Women, Knowledge, and Reality. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989.
Pearsall, Marilyn, ed. Women and Values, chap. 6. Sacramento: California State
Press, 1986.
Tayyab, Basharat. ‘‘Islam.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison
Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 236–44.

Political and Social Philosophy
Allan, Anita. Uneasy Access: Privacy for Women in a Free Society. Totowa, N.J.:
Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1998.
Appiah, Kwame Anthony. ‘‘Racisms.’’ In Anatomy of Racism, ed. David Theo
Goldberg. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1990. 3–17.
Baier, Annette. ‘‘The Need for More than Justice.’’ In Science, Morality, and Feminist Theory, ed. M. Hanen and K. Nielsen. Calgary, Canada: University of Calgary Press, 1987. 41–56.
Becker, M. ‘‘Prince Charming: Abstract Equality.’’ Supreme Court Review (1988):
201–47.
Bordo, Susan. Unbearable Weight: Feminism, Western Culture, and the Body.
Berkeley: California University Press, 1993.
Collins, Patricia Hill. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the
Politics of Empowerment. New York: Routledge, 1990.

256 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Cooke, M., and A. Woollacott, eds. Gendering War Talk. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton
University Press, 1993.
Dwyer, Susan, ed. The Problem of Pornography. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth,
1995.
Elshtain, J. B., and S. Tobias, eds. Women, Militarism, and War. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1990.
Engels, Friedrich. The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State, ed. E.
Leacock. New York: International Publishers, 1972.
Ferguson, Ann. Blood at the Root: Motherhood, Sexuality, and Male Domination.
London: Pandora, 1989.
Fraser, Nancy. Unruly Practices: Power, Discourse, and Gender in Contemporary
Social Theory. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1989.
———. ‘‘From Redistribution to Recognition? Dilemmas of Justice in a ‘Post-Socialist’ Age.’’ New Left Review 212 (1995): 68–83.
Frye, Marilyn. The Politics of Reality: Essays in Feminist Theory. Freedom, Calif.:
Crossing Press, 1983.
Grosz, Elizabeth, ed. Special issue on Feminism and the Body. Hypatia 6, no. 3
(1991).
Held, Virginia. ‘‘Rights.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 500–10.
hooks, bell. Feminist Theory from Margin to Center. Boston: Southend Press, 1984.
Jaggar, Alison M. ‘‘Prostitution.’’ In Philosophy of Sex, ed. Alan Soble. Lanham,
Md.: Littleﬁeld Adams, 1980. 348–68.
———. Feminist Politics and Human Nature. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1983.
Kennedy, Ellen, and Susan Mendus. Women in Western Political Philosophy: Kant
to Nietzsche. Hempstead, U.K.: Wheatsheaf Books, 1987.
Kittay, Eva, and Diana Tietjens Meyers, eds. Feminist Morality: Transforming Culture, Society, and Politics. Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1993.
Lugones, Maria, and Elizabeth Spelman. ‘‘Have We Got a Theory for You!’’ In
Women and Values, ed. Marilyn Pearsall. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth, 1986.
19–31.
MacKinnon, Catherine. The Sexual Harassment of Working Women. New Haven,
Conn.: Yale University Press, 1979.
———. Feminism Unmodiﬁed: Discourses on Life and Law. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 1987.
O’ Brien, Mary. The Politics of Reproduction. Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul,
1981.
Okin, Susan. Women in Western Political Thought. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1979.
———. Justice, Gender, and the Family. New York: Basic Books, 1989.
Pateman, Carole. The Sexual Contract. Cambridge, Mass.: Polity Press, 1988.
———, ed. The Disorder of Women: Democracy, Feminism, and Political Theory.
Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1989.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

257

Pateman, Carole, and Elizabeth Gross, eds. Feminist Challenges: Social and Political Theory. Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1987.
Shanley, Mary Lyndon, and Uma Narayan, eds. Reconstructing Political Theory:
Feminist Perspectives. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press,
1997.
Shanley, Mary Lyndon, and Carole Pateman, eds. Feminist Interpretations and Political Theory. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1991.
Sherwin, Susan. ‘‘Abortion through a Feminist Ethics Lens.’’ Dialogue: Canadian
Philosophical Review 30, no. 3 (1991): 327–42.
Silvers, Anita. ‘‘ ‘Defective’ Agents: Equality, Difference, and the Tyranny of the
Normal.’’ Journal of Social Philosophy 25 (June 1994): 154–75.
Superson, Anita M. ‘‘A Feminist Deﬁnition of Sexual Harassment.’’ Journal of Social Philosophy 24, no. 1 (1993): 46–64.
Ruddick, Sara. Maternal Thinking: Towards a Politics of Peace. New York: Beacon
Press, 1989.
———. ‘‘Notes on a Feminist Peace Politics.’’ In Gendering War Talk, ed. M.
Cooke and A. Woollacott. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1993.
Tronto, Joan. Moral Boundaries: A Political Argument for an Ethic of Care. New
York: Routledge, 1993.
Warren, Karen J., and Duane L. Cady, eds. Special issue on Feminism and Peace.
Hypatia 9, no. 2 (1994).
Wendell, Susan. ‘‘Toward a Feminist Theory of Disability.’’ Hypatia 4, no. 2
(1989): 104–24.
Williams, Patricia J. The Alchemy of Race and Rights. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
University Press, 1991.
‘‘Women and Philosophy.’’ Section 3, on Contemporary Social, Ethical, and Political Issues. Special issue, Philosophical Forum 5, nos. 1–2 (1973–1974).
Young, Iris. Justice and the Politics of Difference. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1990.
Zack, Naomi. ‘‘Philosophy and Racial Paradigms.’’ Journal of Value Inquiry 33
(1999): 299–317.

INDIVIDUAL PHILOSOPHERS
Aquinas, Thomas
Allen, Prudence. The Concept of Woman: The Aristotelian Revolution 750 BC–AD
1250. Montreal: Eden Press, 1985.
Hartel, Joseph. ‘‘The Integral Feminism of St. Thomas Aquinas.’’ Gregorianum 77,
no. 3 (1996): 527–47.
McLaughlin, Eleanor. ‘‘Equality of Souls, Inequality of Sexes: Woman in Medieval

258 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Theology.’’ In Religion and Sexism, ed. Rosemary Reuther. New York: Simon
and Schuster, 1974. 213–66.
Nolan, Michael. ‘‘The Aristotelian Background to Aquinas’s Denial That ‘Woman
Is a Defective Male.’ ’’ Thomist 64 (2000): 21–69.
Traina, Cristina. Feminist Ethics and Natural Law: The End of the Anathemas.
Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press, 1999.

Arendt, Hannah
Allen, Amy. ‘‘Solidarity after Identity Politics: Hannah Arendt and the Power of
Feminist Theory.’’ Philosophy and Social Criticism 25, no. 1 (1999): 97–118.
Benhabib, Seyla. ‘‘Feminist Theory and Hannah Arendt’s Concept of Public
Space.’’ History of the Human Sciences 6, no. 2 (1993): 97–114.
Disch, Lisa J. Hannah Arendt and the Limits of Philosophy. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell
University Press, 1994.
Honig, Bonnie, ed. Feminist Interpretations of Hannah Arendt. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
May, Larry, ed. Hannah Arendt: Twenty Years Later. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press, 1996.
Minnich, Elizabeth K. ‘‘Thinking with Hannah Arendt: An Introduction.’’ International Journal of Philosophical Studies 10, no. 2 (2002): 123–30.
Moynagh, Patricia. ‘‘A Politics of Enlarged Mentality: Hannah Arendt, Citizenship
Responsibility, and Feminism.’’ Hypatia 12, no. 4 (1997): 27–53.
Rich, Adrienne. On Lies, Secrets, and Silence: Selected Prose 1966–1978. New
York: Norton, 1979.
Stone-Mediatore, Shari. ‘‘Hannah Arendt and Susan Grifﬁn: Toward a Feminist
Metahistory.’’ In Presenting Women Philosophers, ed. Cecile Tougas and Sara
Ebenreck. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2000. 280–300.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 4. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1995.

Aristotle
Allen, Christine Garside. ‘‘Can a Woman Be Good in the Same Way as a Man?’’
Dialogue 10 (1971): 534–44.
Bar On, Bat-Ami, ed. Engendering Origins. Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1994.
Fememias, Maria Luisa. ‘‘Women and Natural Hierarchy in Aristotle.’’ Hypatia 9,
no. 1 (1994): 164–72.
Freeland, Cynthia A., ed. Feminist Interpretations of Aristotle. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1998.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

259

Green, Judith. ‘‘Aristotle on Necessary Verticality, Body Heat, and Gendered
Proper Places in the Polis: A Feminist Critique.’’ Hypatia 7, no. 1 (1992): 70–96.
Horowitz, Maryanne Cline. ‘‘Aristotle and Women.’’ Journal of the History of Biology 9 (1976): 183–213.
Kotzin, Rhoda Hadassah. ‘‘Ancient Greek Philosophy.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy, ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell,
1998. 9–20.
Lange, Lynda. ‘‘Woman Is Not a Rational Animal: On Aristotle’s Biology of Reproduction.’’ In Discovering Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and
Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht: Reidel, 1983. 1–15.
Lovibond, Sabina. ‘‘Feminism in Ancient Philosophy: The Feminine Stake in Greek
Rationalism.’’ In The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy, ed. Miranda Fricker and Jennifer Hornsby. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2000. 10–28.
Matthews, Gareth B. ‘‘Gender and Essence in Aristotle.’’ Australasian Journal of
Philosophy Supp. 64 (1986): 16–25.
Morsink, Johannes. ‘‘Was Aristotle’s Biology Sexist?’’ Journal of the History of
Biology 12, no. 1 (1979): 83–112.
Mulgan, Richard. ‘‘Aristotle and the Political Role of Women.’’ History of Political
Thought 15, no. 2 (1994): 179–202.
Sakezles, Priscilla K. ‘‘Feminism and Aristotle.’’ Apeiron 32, no. 1 (1999): 67–74.
Spelman, Elizabeth V. ‘‘Aristotle and the Politicization of the Soul.’’ In Discovering
Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics, Methodology, and
Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht:
Reidel, 1983. 17–30.
Stiehm, Judith Hicks. ‘‘The Unit of Political Analysis: Our Aristotelian Hangover.’’
In Discovering Reality: Feminist Perspectives on Epistemology, Metaphysics,
Methodology, and Philosophy of Science, ed. Sandra Harding and Merrill B. Hintikka. Dordrecht: Reidel, 1983. 31–43.
Thom, P. ‘‘Stiff Cheese for Women.’’ Philosophical Forum 8, no. 1 (1976): 94–107.
Tress, Daryl McGowan. ‘‘The Metaphysical Science of Aristotle’s ‘Generation of
Animals,’ and Its Feminist Critics.’’ Review of Metaphysics 46, no. 2 (1992):
307–41.
Tumulty, Peter. ‘‘Aristotle, Feminism, and Natural Law Theory.’’ New Scholars 55
(1981): 450–64.
Ward, Julia K. ed. Feminism and Ancient Philosophy. New York: Routledge, 1996.

Astell, Mary
Bryson, Cynthia B. ‘‘Mary Astell: Defender of the ‘Disembodied Mind.’ ’’ Hypatia
13, no. 4 (1998): 40–62.

260 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Duran, Jane. ‘‘Mary Astell: A Pre-Humean Christian Empiricist and Feminist.’’
Chap. 14 in Presenting Women Philosophers, ed. Cecile Tougas and Sara Ebenreck. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2000.
McCrystal, John. ‘‘Revolting Women: The Use of Revolutionary Discourse in Mary
Astell and Mary Wollstonecraft Compared.’’ History of Political Thought 14, no.
2 (1993): 189–203.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Augustine
Borrensen, Kari Elisabeth. ‘‘Patristic ‘Feminism’: The Case of Augustine.’’ Augustinian Studies 25 (1994): 139–52.
Blazquez, Niceto. ‘‘Feminismo Augustiniano.’’ Augustinus 27 (January–March
1982): 3–54.
Duval, Shannon. ‘‘Augustine’s Radiant Confessional—Theatre of Prophecy.’’ Contemporary Philosophy 15, no. 2 (1993): 1–4.
Reuther, Rosemary. ‘‘Misogynism and Virginal Feminism in the Fathers of the
Church.’’ In Religion and Sexism, ed. Rosemary Reuther. New York: Simon and
Schuster, 1974. 150–83.
Weaver, F. Ellen, and Jean Laporte. ‘‘Augustine and Women: Relationships and
Teachings.’’ Augustinian Studies 12 (1981): 115–32.

Barre, François Poullain de la
Amorós, Celia. ‘‘Cartesianism and Feminism: What Reason Has Forgotten; Reasons for Forgetting.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 1 (1994): 147–63.
Fraisse, Geneviève. Poulain de la Barre ou le proces de prejuges. Paris: Fayard,
1985.

Bacon, Francis
Keller, Evelyn Fox. ‘‘Baconian Science: A Hermaphroditic Birth.’’ Hypatia 11, no.
3 (1988): 299–308.
Merchant, Carolyn. The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientiﬁc Revolution. San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1980.

Beauvoir, Simone de
Bergoffen, Debra B. ‘‘The Look as Bad Faith.’’ Philosophy Today 36, no. 3 (1992):
221–27.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

261

———. The Philosophy of Simone de Beauvoir: Gendered Phenomenologies,
Erotic Generosities. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1997.
Bordo, Susan. ‘‘The Feminist as Other.’’ Metaphilosophy 27, nos. 1–2 (1996):
10–27.
Farrell Smith, Janet. ‘‘Possessive Power.’’ Hypatia 1 (1986): 103–20.
Hatcher, Donald L. ‘‘Existential Ethics and Why It’s Immoral to Be a Housewife.’’
Journal of Values Inquiry 23 (1989): 59–68.
Hollywood, Amy M. ‘‘Beauvoir, Irigaray, and the Mystical.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 4
(1994): 158–85.
Langer, Monika. ‘‘A Philosophical Retrieval of Simone de Beauvoir’s ‘Pour Une
Morale de l’amiguite.’ ’’ Philosophy Today 38, no. 2 (1994): 181–90.
Morgan, Kathryn Pauly. ‘‘Romantic Love, Altrusim, and Self-Respect.’’ Hypatia 1,
no. 1 (1986): 117–48.
Schutte, Ofelia. ‘‘A Critique of Normative Heterosexuality: Identity, Embodiment,
and Sexual Difference in Beauvoir and Irigaray.’’ Hypatia 12, no. 1 (1997):
40–62.
Seigfried, Charlene Haddock. ‘‘ ‘Second Sex’: Second Thoughts.’’ Hypatia in
Women’s Studies International Forum 3 (1985): 219–29.
Simons, Margaret A. ‘‘Two Interviews with Simone de Beauvoir.’’ Hypatia 3
(1989): 11–27.
———. ed. Feminist Interpretations of Simone de Beauvoir. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
Singer, Linda. ‘‘Interpretation and Retrieval: Rereading Beauvoir.’’ Hypatia in
Women’s Studies International Forum 3 (1985): 231–38.
Tirrell, Lynne. ‘‘Deﬁnition and Power: Toward Authority without Privilege.’’ Hypatia 8, no. 4 (1993): 1–34.

Blackwell, Antoinette Brown
Cazden, Elizabeth. Antoinette Brown Blackwell. New York: Feminist Press, 1983.
Deutscher, Penelope. ‘‘The Descent of Man and the Evolution of Woman.’’ Hypatia
19, no. 2 (2004): 35–55.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Cavendish, Margaret
Merchant, Carolyn. The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientiﬁc Revolution. San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1980.
Schiebinger, Londa. The Mind Has No Sex? Women in the Origins of Modern Science. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1989.

262 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Thomas, Keith. Man and the Natural World: A History of the Modern Sensibility.
New York: Pantheon Books, 1983.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Pizan, Christine de
Brabant, Margaret, ed. Politics, Gender, and Genre: The Political Thought of Christine de Pizan. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1992.
Green, Karen. ‘‘Christine de Pisan and Thomas Hobbes.’’ In Hypatia’s Daughters,
ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1996. 48–67.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 2. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1989.
Willard, Charity Cannon. Christine de Pizan: Her Life and Works. New York: Persea Books, 1984.

Coignet, Clarisse
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Conway, Anne Finch
Duran, Jane. ‘‘Anne Viscountess Conway: A Seventeenth-Century Rationalist.’’ In
Hypatia’s Daughters, ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1996. 92–107.
Merchant, Carolyn. The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientiﬁc Revolution. San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1980.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Cooper, Anna Julia
Bailey, Cathryn. ‘‘Anna Julia Cooper: ‘‘Dedicated in the Name of My Slave Mother
to the Education of Colored Working People.’’ Hypatia 19, no. 2 (2004): 56–73.
May, Vivian M. ‘‘Thinking from the Margins, Acting at the Intersections: Anna
Julia Cooper’s A Voice from the South.’’ Hypatia 19, no. 2 (2004): 74–91.
Washington, Mary Helen. ‘‘An Introduction to A Voice from the South.’’ Chap. 2 in
Presenting Women Philosophers, ed. Cecile Tougas and Sara Ebenreck. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2000.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

263

Cruz, Sor Juana Inés de la
Beggs, Donald. ‘‘Sor Juana’s Feminism from Aristotle to Irigaray. In Hypatia’s
Daughters, ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis: Indiana University Press,
1996. 108–27.
Paz, Octavio. Sor Juana: Or, the Traps of Faith. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1988.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Daly, Mary
Frye, Marilyn, and Sarah Lucia Hoagland, eds. Feminist Interpretations of Mary
Daly. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000.

Derrida, Jacques
Armour, Ellen T. ‘‘Questions of Proximity: Woman’s Place in Derrida and Irigaray.’’ Hypatia 12, no. 1 (1997): 63–78.
Feder, Ellen K., et al., eds. Derrida and Feminism: Recasting the Question of
Woman. New York: Routledge, 1997.
Holland, Nancy J., ed. Feminist Interpretations of Jacques Derrida. University
Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1997.

Descartes, René
Amaros, Celia. ‘‘Cartesianism and Feminism: What Reason Has Forgotten; Reasons
for Forgetting.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 1 (1994): 147–63.
Atherton, Margaret. ‘‘Cartesian Reason and Gendered Reason.’’ In A Mind of One’s
Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity, ed. Louise Antony and Charlotte Witt. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1993. 21–37.
Bordo, Susan. The Flight to Objectivity. Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1987.
———, ed. Feminist Interpretations of René Descartes. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1999.
Cantrell, Carol H. ‘‘Analogy as Destiny: Cartesian Man and the Woman Reader.’’
Hypatia 5, no. 2 (1990): 7–19.
David, Anthony. ‘‘Le Doeuff and Irigaray on Descartes.’’ Philosophy Today 41,
nos. 3–4 (1997): 367–82.
Gatens, Moira. ‘‘Modern Rationalism.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy,
ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 21–29.
Hodge, Joanna. ‘‘Subject, Body, and the Exclusion of Women from Philosophy.’’

264 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

In Feminist Perspectives in Philosophy, ed. Morwenna Grifﬁths and Margaret
Whitford. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988. 152–68.
Scheman, Naomi. Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege. New York: Routledge, 1993.
Thompson, J. ‘‘Women and the High Priests of Reason.’’ Radical Philosophy 34
(Summer 1983): 10–13.

Elisabeth of Bohemia, Princess Palatine
Nye, Andrea. ‘‘Polity and Prudence: The Ethics of Elisabeth, Princess Palatine.’’ In
Hypatia’s Daughters, ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1996. 68–91.
———, ed. The Princess and the Philosopher: Letters of Elisabeth of the Palatine
to René Descartes. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1999.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Foucault, Michel
Butler, Judith. Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. New
York: Routledge, 1990.
———. Bodies That Matter: On the Discursive Limits of ‘‘Sex.’’ New York:
Routledge, 1993.
Hekman, Susan J. Feminist Interpretations of Michel Foucault. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1996.

Gilman, Charlotte Perkins
Egan, Margaret L. ‘‘Evolutionary Theory in the Social Philosophy of Charlotte Perkins Gilman.’’ In Hypatia’s Daughters, ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis:
Indiana University Press, 1996. 248–66.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 4. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1995.

Goldman, Emma
Solomon, Martha. Emma Goldman. Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1987.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 4. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1995.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

265

Gouges, Olympe de
Groult, Benoite, ed. Olympe de Gouges, Ouevres. Paris: Mercure de France 1986.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Gournay, Marie le Jars de
Ilsley, Marjorie Henry. A Daughter of the Renaissance. The Hague, Neth.: Mouton,
1963.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 2. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1989.

Hildegard of Bingen
Allen, Prudence. The Concept of Woman: The Aristotelian Revolution 750 BC–AD
1250. Montreal, Eden Press, 1985.
John, Helen J. ‘‘Hildegard of Bingen: A New Medieval Philosopher?’’ Hypatia 7,
no. 1 (1992): 115–123.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 2. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1989.

Hume, David
Baier, Annette. Good Men’s Women: Hume on Chastity and Trust. Hume Studies 5
(April 1979): 1–19.
———. ‘‘Hume, the Women’s Moral Theorist.’’ In Women and Moral Theory, ed.
Eva Kittay and Diana Tietjens Meyers. Savage, Md.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld,
1987. 37–55.
———. Moral Prejudices. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1994.
Bar On, Bat-Ami. ‘‘Could There Be a Humean Sex-Neutral General Idea of Man?’’
Philosophy Research Archives 13 (1987–1988): 367–77.
Battersby, Christine. ‘‘An Enquiry Concerning the Humean Woman.’’ Philosophy
56 (July 1981): 303–12.
Burns, Steven. ‘‘The Humean Female.’’ Dialogue 15 (1976): 415–24.
Immewahr, John. ‘‘David Hume, Sexism, and Sociobiology.’’ Southern Journal of
Philosophy 22 (Fall 1983): 359–70.
Jacobson, Anne Jaap, ed. Feminist Interpretations of David Hume. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000.
Korsmeyer, Carolyn. ‘‘Hume and the Foundations of Taste.’’ Journal of Aesthetics
and Art Criticism 35 (Winter 1976): 201–15.

266 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Levey, Ann. ‘‘Under Constraint: Chastity and Modesty in Hume.’’ Hume Studies
23 (November 1997): 213–26.
Marcil-Lacoste, Louise. ‘‘The Consistency of Hume’s Position on Women.’’ Dialogue 15 (1976): 425–40.
Sapp, Vicki J. ‘‘The Philosopher’s Seduction: Hume and the Fair Sex.’’ Philosophy
and Literature 19 (April 1995): 1–15.

Irigaray, Luce
Grosz, Elizabeth. Sexual Subversions: Three French Feminists. Sydney: Allen and
Unwin, 1989.
Whitford, Margaret. Luce Irigaray: Philosophy in the Feminine. New York:
Routledge, 1991.

Kant, Immanuel
Blum, Lawrence. ‘‘Kant’s and Hegel’s Moral Rationalism: A Feminist Perspective.’’ Canadian Journal of Philosophy 2, no. 2 (1982): 95–110.
Dillon, Robin. ‘‘Toward a Feminist Conception of Self-Respect.’’ Hypatia 7, no. 1
(1992): 52–69.
Gowans, Christopher W. ‘‘After Kant: Ventures in Morality Without Respect for
Persons.’’ Social Theory and Practice 22, no. 1 (1996): 105–29.
Herman, Barbara. ‘‘Could It Be Worth Thinking About Kant on Sex and Marriage?’’ In A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity,
ed. Louise Antony and Charlotte Witt. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1993.
53–72.
Holland, Nancy. The Madwoman’s Dream: The Concept of the Appropriate in Ethical Thought. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1998.
Hutchings, Kimberly. Kant, Critique, and Politics. New York: Routledge, 1996.
Jauch, Ursula Pia. Immanuel Kant zur Geschlechterdifferenz. Vienna: Passagen,
1989.
Kneller, Jane. ‘‘Discipline and Silence: Women and Imagination in Kant’s Theory
of Taste.’’ In Aesthetics in Feminist Perspective, ed. Hilde Hein. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press, 1993. 179–92.
Kofman, Sarah. ‘‘The Economy of Respect: Kant and Respect for Women.’’ Social
Research 49, no. 2 (1982): 383–404.
Moscovici, Claudia. From Sex Objects to Sexual Subjects. New York: Routledge,
1996.
Okin, Susan Moller. ‘‘Reason and Feeling in Thinking about Justice.’’ Ethics 99
(1989): 229–49.
Piper, Adrian M. S. ‘‘Xenophobia and Kantian Rationalism.’’ Philosophical Forum
24, nos. 1–3 (1992–1993): 188–232.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

267

Schott, Robin May. A Feminist Critique of the Kantian Paradigm. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1993.
———, ed. Feminist Interpretations of Immanuel Kant. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1997.
Sedgwick, Sally. ‘‘Can Kant’s Ethics Survive the Feminist Critique?’’ Paciﬁc Philosophical Quarterly 71, no. 1 (1990): 60–79.
Wiseman, Mary Bittner. ‘‘Beautiful Exiles in Aesthetics.’’ In Aesthetics in Feminist
Perspective, ed. Hilde Hein. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1993.
169–78.
Zweig, Arnulf. ‘‘Kant and the Family.’’ In Kindred Matters, ed. Diana Tietjens
Meyers. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University, Press, 1993. 289–305.

Gottfried Wilhelm, Leibniz
Gatens, Moira. ‘‘Modern Rationalism.’’ In A Companion to Feminist Philosophy,
ed. Alison Jaggar and Iris Marion Young. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 21–29.
Merchant, Carolyn. The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientiﬁc Revolution. San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1980.

Macaulay, Catharine
Gardner, Catherine. ‘‘Catharine Macaulay’s ‘Letters on Education’: Odd but
Equal.’’ Hypatia 13, no. 1 (1998): 118–37.
Hill, Bridget. The Republican Virago: The Life and Times of Catharine Macaulay,
Historian. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1992.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Makin, Bathsua Pell
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Masham, Damaris Cudworth
Frankel, Lois. ‘‘Damaris Dudworth Masham: A Seventeenth Century Feminist Philosopher.’’ Hypatia 4 (1989): 80–90.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

268 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Mill, John Stuart
Annas, Julia. ‘‘Mill and the Subjection of Women.’’ Philosophy 52 (1977): 179–94.
Burgess Jackson, Keith. ‘‘John Stuart Mill, Radical Feminist.’’ Social Theory and
Practice 21, no. 3 (1995): 389–96.
Donner, Wendy. ‘‘John Stuart Mill’s Liberal Feminism.’’ Philosophical Studies 69,
nos. 2–3 (1993): 155–66.
Goldstein, Leslie. ‘‘Mill, Marx, and Women’s Liberation.’’ Journal of the History
of Philosophy 18, no. 3 (July 1980): 319–34.
Himmelfarb, Gertrude. On Liberty and Liberalism: The Case of John Stuart Mill.
New York: Knopf, 1974.
Howes, John. ‘‘Mill on Women and Human Development.’’ Australasian Journal of
Philosophy Supp. 64 (1986): 66–74.
Knight, Jamie K. ‘‘With Liberty and Justice for Some.’’ International Journal of
Applied Philosophy 2 (1984): 85–90.
Mahowald, Mary B. ‘‘Against Paternalism: A Developmental View.’’ Philosophy
Research Archives 6, no. 1386 (1980).
———. ‘‘Freedom versus Happiness, and ‘Women’s Lib,’ ’’ Journal of Social Philosophy 6 (1975): 10–13.
Mendus, Susan. ‘‘John Stuart Mill and Harriet Taylor on Women and Marriage.’’
Utilitas 6, no. 2 (1994): 287–99.
Morales, Maria H. Perfect Equality: John Stuart Mill on Well-Constituted Communities. Lanham, Md.: Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 1996.
Okin, Susan. Women in Western Political Thought. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1979.
Pyle, Andrew, ed. ‘‘The Subjection of Women’’: Contemporary Responses to John
Stuart Mill. Bristol, U.K.: Thoemmes Press, 1995.
Ring, Jennifer. ‘‘Mill’s The Subjection of Women: The Methodological Limits of
Liberal Feminism.’’ Review of Politics 47, no. 1 (1985): 27–44.
Rossi, Alice, ed. Essays on Sex Equality. Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1970.
Shanley, Mary L. ‘‘Marital Slavery and Friendship: John Stuart Mill’s The Subjection of Women.’’ Political Theory 9, no. 2 (1981): 229–47.
Tulloch, Gail. ‘‘Mill’s Epistemology in Practice in his Liberal Feminism.’’ Educational Philosophy and Theory 21, no. 2 (1989): 32–39.

Nietzsche, Friedrich
Ainley, Alison. ‘‘Ideal Selﬁshness: Nietzsche’s Metaphor of Maternity.’’ In Exceedingly Nietzsche, ed. David Farrell Krell. London: Routledge, 1988. 116–30.
Bergoffen, Debra B. ‘‘Nietzsche Was No Feminist.’’ International Studies in Philosophy 26, no. 3 (1994): 23–31.
———. ‘‘On the Advantage and Disadvantage of Nietzsche for Women.’’ In The

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

269

Question of the Other, ed. Arleen B. Dallery. Albany: State University of New
York Press, 1989. 77–88.
Booth, David. ‘‘Nietzsche’s ‘Woman’ Rhetoric.’’ History of Philosophy Quarterly
8, no. 3 (1991): 311–25.
Diprose, Rosalyn. ‘‘Nietzsche, Ethics, and Sexual Difference.’’ Radical Philosophy
52 (1989): 27–33.
Graybeal, Jean. Language and ‘‘the Feminine’’ in Nietzsche and Heidegger.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1990.
Higgins, Kathleen Marie. ‘‘Gender in The Gay Science.’’ Philosophy and Literature
19, no. 2 (1995): 227–47.
Irigaray, Luce. Marine Lover of Friedrich Nietzsche. Trans. Gillian C. Gill. New
York: Columbia University Press, 1991.
Johnson, Pauline. ‘‘Nietzsche’s Reception Today.’’ Radical Philosophy 80 (1996):
24–33.
Lorraine, Tamsin. ‘‘Nietzsche and Feminism: Transvaluing Women in Thus Spoke
Zarathustra.’’ International Studies in Philosophy 26, no. 3 (1994): 13–21.
Oliver, Kelly, and Marilyn Pearsall, eds. Feminist Interpretations of Friedrich
Nietzsche. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1998.
Pasons, Katherine Pyne. ‘‘Nietzsche and Moral Change.’’ Feminist Studies 2
(1974): 57–76.
Schutte, Ofelia. Beyond Nihilism: Nietzsche without Masks. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1984.

Plato
Allen, Christine Garside. ‘‘Plato on Women.’’ Feminist Studies 2, nos. 2–3 (1975):
131–38.
Annas, Julia. ‘‘Plato’s Republic and Feminism.’’ Philosophy 51 (1976): 307–21.
Bluestone, Natalie Harris. Women and the Ideal Society: Plato’s Republic and Modern Myths of Gender. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1987.
Bowery, Anne-Marie. ‘‘Diotima Tells a Story: A Narrative Analysis of Plato’s Symposium.’’ In Feminist and Ancient Philosophy, ed. Julie K. Ward. New York:
Routledge, 1996.
Dickason, Anne. ‘‘Anatomy and Destiny: The Role of Biology in Plato’s Views of
Women.’’ Philosophical Forum 5, nos. 1–2 (1973–1974): 45–53.
Freeman, Barbara. ‘‘(Re)writing Patriarchal Texts: The Symposium.’’ In Postmodernism and Continental Philosophy, ed. Hugh J. Silverman and D. Welton. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1988.
Gardner, Catherine. ‘‘The Remnants of the Family: The Role of Women and Eugenics in Republic V.’’ History of Philosophy Quarterly 17, no. 3 (July 2000):
217–35.
Genova, Judith. ‘‘Feminist Dialectics: Plato and Dualism.’’ In Engendering Origins,
ed. Bat-Ami Bar On. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.

270 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Hawthorne, Susan. ‘‘Diotima Speaks through the Body.’’ In Engendering Origins,
ed. Bat-Ami Bar On. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.
Joo, Maria. ‘‘The Platonic ‘Eros’ and Its Feminist Interpretations.’’ Magyar Filozoﬁai Szemle 1, nos. 2–3 (1996): 1–30.
Lange, Lynda. ‘‘The Function of Equal Education in Plato’s Republic and Laws.’’
In The Sexism of Social and Political Theory, ed. L. Clark and L. Lange. Toronto:
University of Toronto Press, 1979.
Levin, Susan B. ‘‘Women’s Nature and Role in the Ideal Polis: Republic V Revisited.’’ In Feminist and Ancient Philosophy, ed. Julie K. Ward. New York:
Routledge, 1996.
Lovibond, Sabina. ‘‘An Ancient Theory of Gender: Plato and the Pythagorean
Table.’’ In Women in Ancient Societies, ed. Archer, Fischler, and Wyke. London,
Routledge, 1994.
Okin, Susan Moller. ‘‘Philosopher Queens and Private Wives: Plato on Women and
the Family.’’ Philosophy and Public Affairs 6 (1977): 345–69.
———. Women in Western Political Thought. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
Press, 1979.
Osbourne, Martha Lee. ‘‘Plato’s Unchanging View of Woman: A Denial That Anatomy Spells Destiny.’’ Philosophical Forum 6 (Summer 1975): 447–52.
Pierce, Christine. ‘‘Equality: Republic V.’’ Monist 57 (January 1973): 1–11.
———. ‘‘Eros and Epistemology.’’ In Engendering Origins, ed. Bat-Ami Bar On.
Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.
Pomeroy, Sarah. ‘‘Feminism in Book V of Plato’s Republic.’’ Apeiron 8, no. 1
(1974): 33–35.
Saxenhouse, Arlene W. ‘‘Eros and the Female in Greek Political Thought: An Interpretation of Plato’s Symposium.’’ Political Theory 12 (1984): 5–27.
Smith, Nicholas. ‘‘The Logic of Plato’s Feminism.’’ Journal of Social Philosophy
11 (1980): 5–11.
Tress, Daryl McGowan. ‘‘Relations in Plato’s Timaeus.’’ Journal of Neoplatonic
Studies 3 (1994): 93–139.
Tuana, Nancy ed. Feminist Interpretations of Plato. University Park: Pennsylvania
State University Press, 1994.

Rand, Ayn
Goldstein, Mimi Reisel, and Chris Matthews Sciabarra, eds. Feminist Interpretations of Ayn Rand. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1991.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 4. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1995.

Rousseau, Jean-Jacques
Bloch, M., and J. H. Bloch. ‘‘Women and the Dialectics of Nature in Eighteenth
Century French Thought.’’ In Nature, Culture, and Gender, ed. C. MacCormack
and M. Strathern. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1980. 25–41.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

271

Fernon, Nicole. Domesticating Passions: Rousseau, Women, and Nation. Hanover,
N.H.: University Press of New England, 1997.
Gatens, Moira. ‘‘Rousseau and Wollstonecraft: Nature vs. Reason.’’ Australasian
Journal of Philosophy Supp. 64 (1986): 1–15.
Green, Karen. ‘‘Rousseau’s Women.’’ International Journal of Philosophical Studies 4, no. 1 (1996): 87–109.
Kofman, Sarah. Le respect des femmes: (Kant et Rousseau). Paris: Editions Galilee,
1982.
Lange, Lynda. ‘‘Rousseau: Women and the General Will.’’ In The Sexism of Social
and Political Theory, ed. Lorenne Clark and Lynda Lange. Toronto: Toronto University Press, 1979. 41–52.
———, ed. Feminist Interpretations of Jean-Jacques Rousseau. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 2002.
Lloyd, Genevieve. ‘‘Rousseau on Reason, Nature, and Women.’’ Metaphilosophy
14, nos. 3–4 (1983): 308–26.
Martin, Jane. ‘‘Sophie and Emile: A Case Study of Sex Bias in the History of Educational Thought.’’ Harvard Educational Review 51, no. 3 (1981): 357–71.
Pateman, Carole. ‘‘ ‘The Disorder of Women’: Women, Love, and the Sense of Justice.’’ Ethics 91 (1980): 20–31.
Rapaport, Elizabeth. ‘‘On the Future of Love: Rousseau and the Radical Feminists.’’
Philosophical Forum 5, nos. 1–2 (1973–1974): 185–205.
Schwartz, Joel. The Sexual Politics of Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 1984.
Weiss, Penny A. ‘‘Rousseau, Antifeminism, and Women’s Nature.’’ Political Theory 15, no. 1 (1987): 81–98.
———. Gendered Community: Rousseau, Sex, and Politics. New York: New York
University Press, 1993.
Zerilli, Linda. Signifying Woman: Culture and Chaos in Rousseau, Burke, and Mill.
Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1994.

Sartre, Jean-Paul
Barnes, Hazel E. ‘‘Sartre and Sexism.’’ Philosophy and Literature (1990): 340–47.
Bergoffen, Debra B. ‘‘The Look as Bad Faith.’’ Philosophy Today 36, no. 3 (1992):
221–27.
Collins, Margery, and Christine Pierce. ‘‘Holes and Slime: Sexism in Sartre’s Psychoanalysis.’’ In Women and Philosophy: Toward a Theory of Liberation, ed.
Carol Gould and Marx X. Wartofsky. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1976.
112–27.
Fullbrook, Kate, and Edward Fullbrook. ‘‘Sartre’s Secret Key.’’ In Feminist Interpretations of Simone de Beauvoir, ed. Margaret A. Simons. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995. 97–111.

272 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Kruks, Sonia. ‘‘Simone de Beauvoir: Teaching Sartre about Freedom.’’ In Sartre
Alive, ed. R. Aronsen and A. van den Hoven. Detroit: Wayne State Press, 1991.
285–300.
Mui, Constance. ‘‘Sartre’s Sexism Reconsidered.’’ Auslegung 16, no. 1 (1990):
31–41.
Murphy, Julien S. ‘‘The Look in Sartre and Rich.’’ Hypatia 2 (1987): 113–24.
———, ed. Feminist Interpretations of Jean-Paul Sartre. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1999.

Schurman, Anna Maria Van
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Sophia
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Benedict (Baruch) de Spinoza
Gatens, Moira. ‘‘Feminism as ‘Password’: Rethinking the ‘Possible’ with Spinoza
and Deleuze.’’ Hypatia 15, no. 2 (2000): 59–75.
James, Susan. ‘‘The Power of Spinoza: Feminist Conjunctions.’’ Interview with
Genevieve Lloyd and Moira Gatens. Hypatia 15, no. 2 (2000): 40–58.

Taylor Mill, Harriet
Jacobs, Jo Ellen. ‘‘Harriet Taylor Mill’s Collaboration with John Stuart Mill.’’ In
Presenting Women Philosophers, ed. Cecile Tougas and Sara Ebenreck. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2000. 155–66.
Mendus, Susan. ‘‘John Stuart Mill and Harriet Taylor on Women and Marriage.’’
Utilitas 6, no. 2 (1994): 287–99.
Pappe, H. O. John Stuart Mill and the Harriet Taylor Myth. New York: Cambridge
University Press, 1962.
Rossi, Alice, ed. Essays on Sex Equality. Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1970.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

BIBLIOGRAPHY •

273

Wheeler, Anna Doyle
McFadden, Margaret. ‘‘Anna Doyle Wheeler (1785–1848): Philosopher, Socialist,
Feminist.’’ In Hypatia’s Daughters, ed. Linda Lopez McAlister. Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1996. 204–14.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

Wittgenstein, Ludwig
Davidson, Joyce, and Mick Smith. ‘‘Wittgenstein and Irigaray: Gender and Philosophy in a Language (Game) of Difference.’’ Hypatia 14, no. 2 (1999): 72–96.
Lampshire, Wendy Lee. ‘‘History as Genealogy: Wittgenstein and the Feminist Deconstruction of Objectivity.’’ Philosophy and Theology (1991): 313–31.
———. ‘‘Decisions of Identity: Feminist Subjects and Grammars of Sexuality.’’
Hypatia 10, no. 4 (1995): 32–45.
———. ‘‘Women—Animals—Machines: A Grammar for a Wittgensteinian Ecofeminism.’’ Journal of Value Inquiry 29, no. 1 (1995): 89–101.
Martin, Bill. ‘‘To the Lighthouse and the Feminist Path to Postmodernity.’’ Philosophy and Literature 13 (1989): 307–15.
Orr, Deborah. ‘‘On Logic and Moral Voice.’’ Informal Logic 17, no. 3 (1995):
347–63.
Scheman, Naomi, and Peg O’Connor, eds. Feminist Interpretations of Wittgenstein.
University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2002.

Wollstonecraft, Mary
Barker-Benﬁeld, G. J. ‘‘Mary Wollstonecraft: Eighteenth-Century Commonwealthwoman.’’ Journal of the History of Ideas 50 (1989): 95–115.
Brody, Miriam. ‘‘Mary Wollstonecraft: Sexuality and Women’s Rights.’’ In Feminist Theories, ed. Dale Spender. London: Women’s Press, 1983.
Disch, Lisa. ‘‘Claire Loves Julie: Reading the Story of Women’s Friendship in La
Nouvelle Heloise.’’ Hypatia 9, no. 3 (1994): 19–45.
Falco, Maria J., ed. Feminist Interpretations of Mary Wollstonecraft. University
Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1996.
Gatens, Moira. ‘‘Rousseau and Wollstonecraft: Nature vs. Reason.’’ Australasian
Journal of Philosophy Supp. 64 (1986): 1–15.
Grimshaw, Jean. ‘‘Mary Wollstonecraft and the Tensions in Feminist Philosophy.’’
Radical Philosophy 52 (1989): 11–17.
Gubar, Susan. ‘‘Feminist Misogyny: Mary Wollstonecraft and the Paradox of ‘It
Takes One to Know One.’ ’’ Feminist Studies 20, no. 3 (1994): 453–73.

274 •

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Larson, Elizabeth. ‘‘Mary Wollstonecraft and Women’s Rights.’’ Free Inquiry 12,
no. 2 (1992): 45–48.
Mackenzie, Catriona. ‘‘Reason and Sensibility: The Ideal of Women’s Self-Governance in the Writings of M. Wollstonecraft.’’ In Hypatia’s Daughters, ed. Linda
Lopez McAlister. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1996. 181–203.
McCrystal, John. ‘‘Revolting Women: The Use of Revolutionary Discourse in Mary
Astell and Mary Wollstonecraft Compared.’’ History of Political Thought 14, no.
2 (1993): 189–203.
Sabrosky, Judith A. From Rationality to Liberation. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood
Press, 1979.
Sapiro, Virginia. A Vindication of Political Virtue. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1992.
Waithe, Mary Ellen, ed. A History of Women Philosophers. Vol. 3. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, 1991.

About the Author

Catherine Villanueva Gardner studied as an undergraduate at the
University of Leicester in the United Kingdom and earned an M.A. at
the University College of Swansea in Wales. She received her Ph.D.
from the University of Virginia and is an associate professor in philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, where she teaches
for the Department of Philosophy and for the Women’s Studies program. A member of the board of the Society for the Study of Women
Philosophers, she has served as a newsletter editor for the society. Her
publications include Women Philosophers: Genre and the Boundaries
of Philosophy (2003), an examination of forgotten women philosophers
and the reasons for their disappearance. She has published various articles on ecofeminism and feminist history of philosophy, including
‘‘Heaven Appointed Educators of Mind: Catharine Beecher and the
Moral Power of Women’’ and ‘‘The Remnants of the Family: The Role
of Women and Eugenics in Republic V’’ on canon revision; and ‘‘An
Ecofeminist Perspective on the Urban Environment’’ on feminist theory. She is currently writing a book on feminist history of philosophy.

275

