Les thanatonautes
Bernard Werber
English

1

DICTIONARY
THANATONAUTE nm (Greek for thanatos, death and Communities, browser). Explorer
of death.
MANUAL HISTORY
DATES TO REMEMBER
1492 First steps in the Americas 1969: First steps on the Moon in 2062: First
steps on the continent died in 2068: First ads on the path of reincarnation
Handbook of elementary school classes 2 "year.
FIRST TIME
TIME yourselfers
1-MANUAL HISTORY
Once all men were afraid of death. She was like a constant background noise that
no one forgot for a second. Everyone knew that after all his actions was his own
disappearance. And this anxiety ruining all the fun.
Woody Allen, an American philosopher of the late XXA century had a phrase to
describe the mood that prevailed in those days: "As long as man is mortal, he
will not be really relaxed."
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
2-DIARY OF MICHAEL FINCH
Do I have the right to tell everything?
Even now, looking back, I can hardly believe that what happened has actually
occurred. I hardly believe that I participated AThis great epic. And I can
hardly believe that I survived to testify.
Obviously, nobody could imagine that everything would be so fast and so far.
Person.
What pushed us into this madness? I do not know. Perhaps something stupid called
curiosity. That same curiosity that makes us want to look us over ravines to see
how we would drop our terrible if we made one more step.
Perhaps also the need for adventure in a world of increasingly aimless and
dispassionate.
Some say, "It was written, it had to be that way." Me, I do not believe in prewritten destiny. I believe that men make choices and assume them. It is these
choices that shape the destinies and it is these choices that draw men perhaps
the universe.
I remember everything from every episode of every word, every expression of this
great adventure.
Do I have the right to tell you everything?
Battery: I relate. Face: I keep the secret.
Pile.
If I were to seek the origins of all the events that are chained, should I go
back far, far away in my own past.
3-SHEET POLICE
Application of basic descriptive information
Name: Pinson Name: Michael Hair: Brown Eyes: Brown Height: 1 m 75 Distinguishing
features: None Comment: Pioneer movement thanatonautique Weakness: Lack of selfconfidence

2

4 - CHEZ DUPONT'S ALL GOOD
As with all children, there was for me the day M, discovery of death. My first
death was just a man accustomed to living among the dead. It was Mr. Dupont, our
butcher. His motto was inscribed in large letters in his window
"Chez Dupont everything is good." One morning my mother told me that we could
not buy from him filet mignon for tomorrow Sunday because Mr. Dupont was dead.
He was crushed by a Charolais beef carcass that had unexpectedly taken down.

I must have been four years. A point blank, I asked my mother what it meant this
word: "DEATH>
My mother appeared as embarrassed as the day I asked her if her birth control
pills could cure my cough.
She looked down.
- Well, uh, it means to be dead "no longer there".
- As out of a room?
- Not just a room. This is also leaving the house, the city, the country.
- Traveling far, then? Like when we go on vacation?
- Uh ... no, not exactly. Because, when you're dead, you do not move.
- Do not move and goes away? That's great! How is this possible?
It may be this clumsy attempt to explain the death of the butcher Dupont was
born in me the curiosity of soil in which, much later, Raoul Razorbak could
germinate his delusions.
Finally, at least, that is what it seems.
Three months later, when I was told that my great-grandmother Aglaé was dead,
too, I said, it seems: "Grandma is dead Aglaé So there, I doubt that she is
capable of?" Furious, my great-grandfather rolled his eyes and uttered this
terrible sentence I will never forget
- But you do not know then that death is the most terrible thing that can
happen!
No. I did not know.
- Oh ... I thought ... I stammered.
- Do not mess with these things! he added to drive the nail. If there is
something with which we do not joke, it's death!
My father took over. Everyone wanted me to understand that death was an absolute
taboo. We do not talk, we did not mention, if you pronounce his name it was with
fear and respect. In no case can not pronounce this word in vain, it is bad
luck.
It shook me.
- Your great-grandmother died Aglaé. It's horrible. And if you were not
heartless ... you cry!
It must be said that since the dawn, my brother Conrad, he poured like a bath
that wrung mop.
Oh, when people die, you have to cry? It never tells me anything. Things that go
without saying are better said them.
To help me to cry, my father, infuriated by my youthful arrogance, also gave me
a pair of slaps. That way, he hoped, I remind: one, the phrase "death is the
most terrible thing that can happen" and two, that "you do not mess with these
things."
- Why did not you cry? my father insisted again on returning from the funeral of
great-grandmother Aglaé.
- Leave him alone, Michael was only five years old, he does not even know what
death is, feebly defended my mother.
- He knows very well but he thinks of himself, so the death of the other
indifferent. You'll see, when we die, it does not weep!
There I began to understand that for good do not laugh with death. After that,
once you told me a passage of life àtrépas I and compelled me to think very hard
on something very sad ... the boiled spinach, for example. Tears came smoothly

3

and it was nice to everyone.
I then had a more direct contact with death. Indeed, seven years, it was I who
died;. The event took place in February, on a beautiful clear day. I must say
that we had a very soft before January and it is very common that a mild January
followed by a sunny February.
5 - WHERE THE HERO DIES NOW
- Attention!
- Woe ...
- My God!
- Take heed! You do not see that going ...
- Noooon !!!!!!
Long screeching brakes. Dull, muffled shock. I ran my ball which had rolled on
the floor and the bumper of the green sports car picked me just below the knees,
where the skin is more tender. My feet took off from earth. I was catapulted
into the sky.
The air whistled in my ears. I flew above the ground. A cool wind blew through
my open mouth. Here below, far below, onlookers peered me, terrified.
14
A woman screamed on seeing me raise me. Blood escaped from my pants, forming a
puddle on the asphalt.
Everything happened in slow motion. I was flying at roof level, watching the
silhouettes bobbing in attics. For the first time, then there arises in my mind
the question that so often obséderait me later: "But what am I doing here?"
Yes, at this moment, suspended in the air a fraction of time, I realized that I
did not understand.
Who am I?
Where did I come from?
Where am I going?
Eternal questions. Everyone is asking them one day. Me, I asked them to me at
that moment that I was dying.
I climbed very high. I went down quickly. My shoulder slammed into the hood of a
green sports car. I bounce my head and went to knock the curb. Crunch. Thud.
Frightened faces bent over me.
I wanted to speak, but I could not do anything, or say, or move. Sunlight began
to decrease slowly. In February, the sun is still timid. We feel that the
showers of March will not be long. The sky gradually died out. Soon I was in the
dark, silent. More aroma, more sensation, nothing. Rideau.
I was just seven years old and I had to die first.
6 - ADVERTISING
"Life is beautiful. Do not listen to gossip. Life is good. Life is a product
tested and approved by more than seventy billion humans for three million years.
This proves its quality irreplaceable. "
This is a message of ANPV, the National Agency for the promotion of life.
7-MANUAL HISTORY
Until the appearance of thanatonautique, death was considered one of the main
taboos of humanity. To better fight against his own image, men were using mental
processes
we would call superstition. Some considered, for example, a metal coin with the
image of St. Christopher, attached to a dashboard, helped avoid fatal car
accidents.
Before the third century, and commonly joked: "In case of car accident is the
driver who has the biggest Christophe saint who is most likely to get out."

4

History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
8-LESS WHERE THE HERO DIES
WE COULD BELIEVE
Hold. Nothing terrible happened.
Great-great-grandfather was wrong. Dying was not so awful as that. There is
nothing going on and that was it.
The black and the silence lasted a long time.
Finally, I opened my eyes. A slender figure appeared in an opaque halo of light.
An angel, surely.
The angel leaned on me. The angel looked strangely like a woman, but a beautiful
woman like you never see on earth. She was blonde, with brown eyes.
Her perfume smelled apricot.
Around us, everything was white and serene.
I had to be in Heaven because the angel smiled.
- Ouahé udéen ... ... ... éatu you.
Angels had to speak a language to them. Jargon incomprehensible to non-angel
angels.
- Fou ... ... nafhé ludéhen ... éatuheu.
She repeated this chant with patience and passed me his soft, cool hand on my
forehead smooth injured child.
- You ... have ... more ... temperature.
I looked around, somewhat dazed.
- Are you okay? You understand me? You have no temperature.
- Where am I? In Paradise?
- No. In the intensive care unit at St. Louis hospital.
The angel reassured me.
- You're not dead. You have just a few bruises. You're lucky that the hood of
the car has cushioned your fall. You have a big gash in his knees.
16
- I fainted?
- Yes, for three hours.
I was unconscious for three hours and I had no memory! Not the slightest scrap
of idea or feeling. During these three hours, nothing had happened.
The nurse placed me under the pillow kidneys so I could sit more comfortably. I
may be dead for three hours but it did make me neither hot nor cold.
What caused me sharp headaches, however, was the arrival of my family. They were
all very nice and sobbed as if I had actually given up the ghost. They claimed
to have made a lot of concern for me. "We made an ink blood" disaientils
exactly. I had the impression they regretted a bit that I be fired me. If I had
died, they would have me so late. Suddenly, I had acquired all virtues.
9 POLICE -Sheet
Subject: Request for information concerning a certain psycbologiques Micbael
Pinson
The subject to be studied globally looks normal. However we detect in him some
psychological fragility caused by too stuffy family circle. The subject lives
permanently in doubt. For him, the last speaker is always right. He does not
know what he wants. It does not include its time. Slight paranoid tendencies.
Note: Parents have never seen fit to reveal about that aforementioned was an
adopted child.
10 - A VULTURE
This first excursion out life had taught me nothing truly interesting about
death, were it not that it would remain for a long time source of trouble with

5

my family.
Later, to my eight, nine, I intéressai me more to death, but this time that of
others. It should be noted that television exhibited nightly news to twenty
hours in the dead want you in here. There was first the dead of wars. Those
wearing green and red uniforms. Then there was the deceased
Roads holidays: colorful clothes. Finally came the famous deceased: sequin
dress.
On television, everything was simpler than in life. We immediately understood
that death was sad because the images were accompanied by funeral music.
Television, even children and stupid could understand. The dead of wars were
entitled to a Beethoven symphony, deceased vacation to a Vivaldi concertino and
victims of overdose stars to Mozart slow cello.
I did not fail to notice that as soon as a star died, his record sales soared,
his films came and went on TV and everyone spoke well of the deceased. As if
death had erased all his sins. Even stronger: their demise did not prevent
artists to work. The best albums of John Lennon, Jimi Hendrix or Jim Morrison
had appeared on the market long after their death.
My next burial was that of Uncle Norbert. A great guy, it was asserted in the
funeral procession. It was there also that I heard for the first time the famous
phrase: "It's always the best who go first." I was only eight years but I could
not help thinking: "So there around, there are only bad? "
At the funeral one, I showed myself impeccable. From the start of the convoy, I
concentrated on boiled spinach branches. I sobbed over again by adding it
anchovies. Even my brother Conrad was unable to climb to the height of my tears.
Arriving at the cemetery of Pere-Lachaise, I added in addition to the menu of my
tears broccoli and the raw lamb brains. Berk. I almost fainted with disgust. In
the small crowd, someone whispered, "I did not know Michael was so linked to the
Norbert uncle." My mother noticed that the fact was all the more surprising that
I had, in a word , ever met. Still, I had discovered the recipe for successful
funerals: spinach, anchovies, broccoli and lamb brains.
Memorable day if it was because, in addition, I met for the first time Raoul
Razorbak.
We were gathered at the grave of my late uncle Norbert when I noticed a little
further what first appeared to me like a vulture standing on a burial. It was
not a bird of prey. It was Raoul.
18
Taking advantage of a moment of inattention - after all I had provided my tears
quota - I approached the dark figure. A sort of loner beanpole was sitting on a
tombstone, staring at the sky.
- Hello, I say politely. What are you doing here?
Silence. Up close, the vulture seemed a kid. He was thin, gaunt face showed the
jutting cheekbones under tortoiseshell glasses. His hands were slender and
elegant resting on his pants as two quiet spiders awaiting orders of their
master. The boy lowered his head and looked at me with a calm and depth that I
had never encountered in someone about my age.
I repeated my question
- So, what are you doing here?
A hand-spider went up at full speed the north side of his coat to file in a
long, straight nose.
- You can tu me, 'he said solemnly.
He finally explained
- I'm on my father's grave. I try to perceive if he has things to say.
I pouffai. He hesitated before bursting out laughing in his turn. There was
nothing else to do than to make fun of a skinny kid who spent hours waiting on a
grave while watching the clouds pass.
- What's your name?
- Raoul Razorbak. You can call me Raoul. And you?

6

- Michael Pinson. You can call me Michael.
He sized up me.
- Pinson? For a lark, you made me look like a weirdo.
I tried to keep his composure. There was a boilerplate sentence that had taught
me for this kind of difficult situation.
- This is the one who says that is.
He burst out laughing again.
11- SHEET POLICE
Application of basic descriptive information
Name: Razorbak First name: Raoul Hair: Brown
19
Eyes: Brown
Size: 1 m 90
Distinguishing features: Port glasses
Comments: movement of Pioneer thanatonautique
Weakness: Excess of confidence
12 -AMITIÉ
Thereafter, Raoul and I took the habit to get together at Père Lachaise every
Wednesday afternoon. I liked walking alongside his long lean silhouette. In
addition, he always had fantastic stories to tell me.
- We were born too late, Michael.
- Why?
- Because everything has already been invented, everything has already been
explored. My dream was to be the first man to invent gunpowder or electricity,
be it the first to make a bow and arrows. I would have settled for a nothing.
"But everything has already been discovered. The reality is going faster than
science fiction. There are more inventors, as followers. People who perfected
what others have discovered long ago. The last to have known this fantastic
impression to deflower a new world, it had to be Einstein. You imagine dizzy in
the head when he realized that we could calculate the speed of light!
No, I did not imagine me.
Raoul looked at me, sorry.
- You should read more books, Michael. The world is divided into two categories
of people: those who read books and those who listen to those who have read the
books. Better to belong to the first category, believe me.
I replied that he was talking just like a book and we laughed together. To each
his role: Raoul declaimed truths, I was joking, then we in concert esclaffions.
In fact, we laughed anything like hunchbacks.
Still, Raoul Razorbak had read quantities of books. It was he also who gave me
the taste for reading by making myself known authors, in his words, "no razor"
Rabelais, Edgar Allan Poe, Lewis Carroll, H. G. Wells, jules Verne, Isaac
Asimov, Frank Herbert, Philip K. Dick.
20
- Writers "no razor", there is not so, Raoul explained. Most authors imagine
that the more they are incomprehensible, they seem more intelligent. So they
stretch their sentences twenty lines. Then they get literary awards, and then
people buy their books to decorate their living and to convince the people who
come to them they are able to read such sophisticated stuff. I even laminated
books where nothing happened. Absolutely nothing. A fellow comes in, sees a good
woman, the dredger. She says she does not know if she lies or not sleep with
him. After eight hundred pages, she finally decides to announce that decidedly
is not.
- But what interest he has to write books where it is strictly nothing happens?
I inquired.

7

- Lack of ideas. Poverty of imagination. Hence biographies and autobiographies,
biographies and autobiographies ... romanticized Writers unable to invent a
world can only describe their world, so poor it may be. Even in literature,
there are more inventors. So bottom fault, the authors lick their style,
fignolent form. Describe ten long pages with a boil your misfortunes and get a
good chance., Won the Goncourt.
Giggles shared.
- Believe me, if dHomère The Odyssey was published for the first time today, he
does not even appear in the lists of best sellers. It would be classified with
fantastic books and horror. There would be only the kids like us who would read
for stories of Cyclops, magician, siren and other monsters.
Raoul was born with the rare ability to judge for himself. He did not repeat
learnedly made ideas serinées on television or in newspapers. I think that's
what attracted me so much at home, this free spirit, resistance to all
influences. He went in with his father. He was professor of philosophy, he
stressed, and had taught him a love of books. Raoul read nearly a day.
Especially fantastic books or science fiction.
- The secret of freedom is the bookstore, he liked to say.
21
13 WE DO NOT ENOUGH SLEEP TO HIS GUTS
One Wednesday afternoon when, sitting on a bench, we thought in silence fraying
clouds above the cemetery, Raoul pulled out a thick notebook from his briefcase.
Opening it, he showed me a page that he had to cut out a book on ancient
mythology before pasting.
There was a picture of an Egyptian ship and different characters.
The comments
- In the center of the nave stands Ra, the sun god. A deceased is kneeling
before him. From either side, stand two other deities Isis and Nephthys. With
his left hand, Isis indicates a direction, and in her right she wields an ankh,
the symbol of eternity that awaits the traveler in the hereafter.
- The Egyptians believed in an afterlife?
- Of course. There, on the far left of the picture, it is recognized Anubis with
his jackal head. He is the guide who will accompany the deceased, who holds in
his hand an urn containing his stomach and intestines.
I held back a start-heart.
Raoul adopted a professorial tone
- "Any death must ensure that no item steals her womb," says a proverb from
ancient Egypt.
He turned the page, moving to other images.
- There the death climbs in turn in the boat. Either. he is greeted by Ra in
person or by a pig. The pig eats the souls of the damned in hell he drives
curses rife cruel executioners who will suffer a thousand torments them through
their crooked fingers ending in long fingernails tip.
- How awful!
Raoul advised me to show myself less hasty in my judgments.
- If it is Ra himself who agrees to host the death, everything will be better.
The deceased will be installed, standing alongside the gods, and the boat starts
to slip, hauled along the shore by a long rope which is actually a live boa.
- Super!
Raoul looked up at the sky. With my enthusiasm and my
22
alternating écoeurements, I began to exasperate. Yet he continued. After all, I
was his only audience.

8

- This is a nice boa snake away the enemies of light. He did his best but there
was another reptile, wicked celuilà, Apophis, the embodiment of Seth, the god of
evil. He runs around the boat for capsizing. Sometimes it comes out of the water
and spits fire. He spins the boat and jumped out of the waves hoping to swallow
the terrified soul of the deceased. If this holds good, the nave of death
continues its path and slides along the underground river that flows through the
twelve lower worlds. There are many pitfalls to avoid. We must enter the gates
of hell, around aquatic monsters, protect against flying demons. But if the dead
succeeded all his trials, he ...
To my dismay, Raoul paused.
- We will continue next week. It is already seven, my mother will worry.
My frustration amused.
- All in good time. Do not be impatient.
The next night, for the first time I dreamed that I flew, piercing the clouds. I
was like a bird. No, I was a bird. And I flew, I flew ... And then suddenly, at
the turn of a cumulus, I saw a woman dressed in white. She was sitting on a
cloud and it was beautiful. Her body was young and slender. I approached and saw
she was holding a mask in hand. I went there again and I had a burst of terror.
The mask was only skeleton death skull with empty eye sockets, a mouth without
lips frozen rictus. I woke up in a sweat. With one bound I rushed to the
bathroom, put my head under the cold water tap to wash away this nightmare.
The next morning at breakfast, I asked my mother
- Mom, do you think we can fly like birds?
My accident have disturbed me a little? She gave me a strange look.
- Stop talking nonsense and swallows your cereal.
14 - Mesopotamian Mythology
"Where are you, Gilgamesh?
The life that you seek
You will not find
23
When the gods created man they destinèrent their death, and they kept them for
eternal life. "
The Epic of Gilgamesh.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
15 -RAOUL IS MABOUL
Whenever we met in the cemetery of PèreLachaise, Raoul and I were talking about
death. Finally, Raoul spoke of death, and I listened. Nothing morbid, dirty or
macabre in these discussions. We discussed death as an interesting phenomenon,
in the same way that we could talk about aliens or motorcycles.
- I have a dream, 'I said.
I wanted to tell him the story of the woman in white satin skeletal mask sitting
in the sky but he did not give me time. He immediately interrupted me
- I too have a dream. I used to make a chariot of fire. I climbed and horses of
fire led me toward the sun. I had to pass through the circles of light to get
close to the star and I crossed circles, I felt better understand things.
I learned later that it was no coincidence that Raoul was interested in death.
One evening, after school, he had headed straight to the bathroom and there he
found his father hanging from the toilet. Francis Razorbak was professor of
philosophy at the Jean-Jaures high school in Paris.
Francis Razorbak he had discovered something so interesting about the afterlife
that he wanted to leave this world?
Raoul was convinced. His father would not have killed sadness or anger. He was
dead to better understand a mystery. My friend was all the more certain that,
for several months, his father had set about writing a thesis entitled The

9

Death, the unknown.
He probably had discovered something essential because, just before hanging
himself, he had set fire to his work. Leaves still fluttered burnt in the
fireplace when Raoul had found
24
the body. A hundred were still legible. There was talk of ancient mythologies
and religions of the dead.
Since then, Raoul had not stopped thinking about it. What his father had found
so important? What had gone to seek in death?
Raoul had not cried the day of the funeral. But he, no one had scolded. No one
had sent him the slightest reproach. He had just heard: "This poor kid is so
traumatized by the hanging of his father that he is unable to cry." If I had
known earlier, I would have foisted him my recipe based on boiled spinach and
lamb brains and it would have spared that kind of thinking.
The father barely buried, the behavior of the mother of Raoul changed completely
all. She gave him her every whim. She bought him all the toys, all the books,
all the newspapers he claimed. He was free of his time. My mother stated to me
that he was a spoiled child because unique and orphan son of his father. Even
give up part of my family, I also would have liked to be a spoiled child.
At home, there is nothing happening to me.
- What have you got to still hang out with this little Razorbak? my father
asked, lighting one of his cigars that stank àtrente meters around.
I protested fervently.
- He is my best friend.
- So you do not know to choose your friends, claimed my father. This kid is not
normal, it's obvious.
- Why?
- Do not play the innocent. His father was depressed to the point of suicide.
With similar heredity, any kid would be enough cinoque. In addition, her mother
does not work and merely his pension. All this is unhealthy. You should attend
more normal people.
- Raoul is normal, I assured forcefully.
Always treacherous, my brother Conrad thought when the time came to add his two
cents.
- Suicide is a hereditary disease. Children are tempted by suicide suicide as
children of divorced do everything to make their dark wedding.
Everyone pretended not to hear the remarks of my brother to cretin. My mother
did not take it less over.
25
- You normally judges spend hours sitting in a cemetery, as Raoul as it seems?
- Look, Mom, he is free to do what he wants of his time. As long as he does not
bother anyone ...
- Defend it! Birds of a feather flock together. The proof we saw you talking
with him among the tombs!
- Even if it's true, so what?
- So, it's bad luck to disturb the dead. We must let them rest in peace,
declared peremptorily Conrad, always ready àm'enfoncer when I already had your
head under water.
- Conrad, moron! Conrad, moron! I cried, and I décochai him a punch.
We drove down. My father waited for Conrad has responded to separate us. Not
long enough, however, to allow me time to get my revenge.
- Calm down, kids, or else it is I who will undertake to distribute slaps.
Conrad is right. Bad luck hanging out in cemeteries.
In a cavernous cough, he spat out the liquid form of smoke from his cigar before
adding
- There are places to talk. Cafes, gardens, sports clubs. Cemeteries are for the
dead, not the living.
- But, Dad ...

10

- Michael, you annoy me in the end. Ceases to be clever or I do not louperai
you.
I was entitled to a new pair of slaps and I began immediately àpleurnicher to
avoid another.
- You see that you know when you want to cry, my father remarked sardonically.
Conrad was radiant. My mother ordered me to win my room.
This is how I began to learn how the world worked. We must mourn the dead. We
must obey his parents. We must bear Conrad. It should not be clever. It should
not be hanging out in cemeteries. We must choose its friends among the so-called
normal people. Suicide is a hereditary disease and perhaps even contagious.
In the darkness of my room, with, still in my mouth, the salty taste of my tears
of pain, I suddenly felt very alone. That night, a slap still imprinted on my
burning cheek, I regretted being born into such a compelling universe.
26
16 - THE WEIGHT OF A FEATHER
- The deceased must pass the door;
Hell, prevent aquatic monsters, protect against flying demons. If he succeeds,
he will find himself face to Osiris, the supreme judge and a court consisting of
forty-two divine judges. He will have to then prove the purity of his soul by a
negative confession in which he declared that he never committed any sins or
serious offenses during the life he has just left. He will tell
I have not committed iniquity against men I have not mistreated people I have
not concealed the truth I have not blasphemed God I have not depleted poor I did
not do this which is abominable to the gods I have not served a slave to his
master I have not fornicated in the holy places of my town I have not hungry I
did not cry I do not I have killed did not order to kill
- It can therefore say what he wants, even lie? I asked Raoul.
- Yes. He has the right to lie. The gods ask him questions, to deceive the
deceased. But his task is not easy because the gods know many things. Normal,
they are gods.
- And then?
- If he emerges victorious from this test, he will face the second part of the
judgment, this time in the presence of new gods.
Raoul paused to better maintain the suspense.
- Shall be there, Ma'at, the goddess of justice, and Thoth the god of wisdom and
learning ibis-headed. He will record the deceased's testimony on a tablet. Then
cometh Anubis, the jackal-headed god, pledged a large scale that will be used to
weigh the soul.
- How do we weigh a soul?
Raoul ignored such an obvious question, frowned, turned a page and continued
- Anubis deposited on a tray the heart of the deceased and a feather
27
on the other. If the heart is lighter than the feather, the dead man is declared
innocent. If the heart is more heavier than the feather, it will be given as
food to a lion's body and head god crocodile devouring the souls entrusted
unworthy of Eternity.
- And what will be the fate of the winner ...?
- Freed from the weight of his life, he will join the light of the rising sun.
- Super!
- ... Then the wait Khepri, gold scarab-headed god. There will conclude his way.
The justified soul will know the eternal bliss. To her then sing the anthem of
the winners who have managed their path on earth and in the afterlife. Listen
hymn.
Raoul stood on a tombstone, an acne-faced moon and a clear voice, began to

11

recite the ancient words
The link is settled I took down all the evil that is in me, O Osiris powerful I
finally just been born Look at me, I just born.
Raoul had finished reading the great book of ancient mythology. He had
accomplished his feat. Sweat beaded on his forehead. He smiled as if Anubis had
just declare the winner of his own life.
- Beautiful story! I exclaimed. You think up there for the dead, it really
happen like that?
- I do not know. It is an allegory. These Egyptians had obviously acquired a
great knowledge on the subject but as they did not wish to reveal the misuse,
they have resorted to metaphors and poetic terms. A writer would have been
incapable of inventing it all in one day inspiration. These myths have their
origin in a kind of universal good sense. The proof, all religions tell much the
same story as this one, by using different terms. All religions claim there is a
world beyond death. That there are tests and after, reincarnation and
liberation. More than two-thirds of humanity believe in reincarnation.
- But do you really think that there is a boat with Gods
which ...
28
Raoul motioned me to be silent.
- Shh! We come.
It was nine o'clock already, and the cemetery had closed its gates naturally.
Who could therefore come and disturb her peace? And how others had fared at the
closed gates? We, we had found a passage by climbing the big tree in the
northwest corner, the branches leaning over the wall. We were convinced of being
the only way to know this.
We slipped stealthily us toward a dull murmur.
We saw a group in black cloaks passing through a grid trompe l'oeil.
17-MANUAL HISTORY
Our ancestors believed that death is a passage from the state of any ROLLING
anything. To better support this idea, they invented religions (set of rituals
based on myths). Most ensured that there was another world beyond this one but
nobody really believed. Religions especially sowed intends to rallying signs of
specific ethnic groups.
History textbook, Basic Course 2nd year.
18-AGAINST FOOLS
The band stopped in front of a tomb, lit torches, undertook to file all kinds of
miscellaneous objects on a tombstone. I distinguished photos, books and even
statuettes.
Raoul and I dissimulâmes us behind a fire occupied by a burial actor-rockerplayboy victim of a fishbone swallowed wrong. For the record, the star coughed
more than an hour, trying to break free of this strange invasion of his glottis.
No one thought to help him despite a crowded restaurant. Everyone figured that
the idol was in the process of engaging toa wild happening, inventing new dances
and a new way of singing. They applauded wildly his final burst of agony.
29
Anyway, from where we stood, we were Ameme to follow the entire scene. The
encapés donned black hoods and now strange chanting incantations.
- They say prayers backwards, whispered Raoul.
I understood that "Segna sed erem, eiram Eulas suov ej" actually means "Hail

12

Mary, Mother of Angels".
- Surely a satanic sect, added my friend.
Following the litany proved him right.
O
O
O
O
O

Great
Great
Great
Great
Great

Beelzebub,
Beelzebub,
Beelzebub,
Beelzebub,
Beelzebub,

give us a bit of your power
let us see your world
teach us to be invisible
teach us to be as fast as the wind
teach us to revive the dead

I shuddered but Raoul Razorbak remained impassive. His calm and courage were
communicative. We rapprochâmes us in the group. Up close, the followers were
even more impressive. Some. were tattooed on their forehead evil symbols goats
smiling, whirling devils, snake biting its tail.
After many prayers and incantations yet, they lit candles they disposèrent in
five-pointed star. They did burn the bone powder that Calcina in a purple cloud
of smoke. Finally, a bag, they went out a black cock who fought his best, not
without leaving some feathers.
- This black cock, Grand Beelzebub, we will sacrifice him. A rooster against a
soul to soul amok!
In choir, all resumed
- A rooster soul for a soul amok!
Poultry was slaughtered and its blood scattered to the five points of the star.
They then exhibèrent a white hen.
- This white hen, Grand Beelzebub, we sacrifice thee. A hen soul against soul
ghoul.
In unison
- A hen soul for a soul ghoul. A bird soul for a soul executioner.
- You are scared? Raoul whispered in my ear.
I tried to remain at its height but no longer able àcontrôler trembling that
filled my members. It was necessary
30
especially avoid chattering teeth. The noise would alert the black mass of fans.
- When one is afraid in life, it is because we do not know what decision to
take, quietly told my young companion.
I shook my head in incomprehension.
Raoul pulled a two-franc piece.
- In life, he continued, there is always a choice. Act or flee. Forgive or
revenge. Love or hate.
Was this the time to philosophize? He remained unperturbed.
- We are afraid when we do not know what to do because so many factors come into
play that we end up not understanding what is actually happening around us. How
to choose when the world is so complex? What? With a workpiece. Nothing can
influence a coin. It is immune to illusions, she does not hear the fallacious
arguments, she fears nothing. It can therefore give you the courage you lack.
Having said that, he threw the piece to the highest heavens. She fell tails.
Raoul flashed a victorious smile.
- Battery! Pile, this means: Yes. Let's go. Forward. Pile it means "green
light". Come on. You and me against the fools, 'he told me.
Nearby, the grim ceremony continued.
On a larger bag, the Belzébuthiens pulled a little white goat bleated
mournfully, blinded by candles.
- We will sacrifice this white goat so that you us a window works the land of
the dead. A goat soul for soul ...
A guttural voice echoed through the cemetery.
- A goat for a soul band vapid.
The knife, already up
to decapitate the beast stopped short.

13

Raoul was drawn next to me screaming with the assurance given him by the simple
fact of having fallen tails.
- Out of my sight, servants of Beelzebub! Beelzebub is long dead. Those who
worship her be damned. I am Astaroth, the ninth Prince of Darkness and I curse
you. Never come unclean animal blood defile the sacred tombs. You wake up the
dead and the gods get upset!
The Belzébuthiens were fixed, dumbfounded. They were looking for the source of
this message, but saw nothing. Raoul had the voice. He had the voice because the
coin had assured him of the action
31
undertake. Everything was. become clear. For him, for me and for them "too.
Raoul was the strength. They were just annoying. Raoul was only a child but he
was their master. Faced with this alarming outbreak, the masked men preferred to
clear out. The little goat sped in reverse.
It was so easy to win a battle. Pile, I would be the strongest. Face, I would be
a coward. Small coin decides for me for my behavior.
Raoul shook my shoulder and told me the two-franc piece.
- I'll offer. From now on, you will no longer afraid of anything and you will
know take the right choice. You will be with a friend who will never falter.
In the hollow of my hand, the room radiated.
19 POLICE -Sheet
Request for information about psychological Raoul Razorbak
It seems that the child said Raoul Razorbak be struck from psychotic delusions.
Several times already, he got into violent rages and has endangered the lives of
those around her. His mother however refused any confinement in a psychiatric
clinic. Asked by a specialist, she said her son had been very affected by the
death of his father. tt It simply needs to compensate, "she has said.
The young Raoul Razorbak do for the time being engaged in any crime and did not
seem about to sink into delinquency, the service considers premature active
procedure.
20 - HISTORY MANUAL
THE DEATH OF OUR MAJOR-FATHERS
Leading causes of death in France in 1965 (towards the end of the second
millennium), ranked in descending order by the number of victims. Note that some
of the time diseases are, nowadays, eradicated.
Heart Disease
Cancers
Cerebrovascular lesions
Car accidents
Liver cirrhosis
32
98 392 93 834 62 746 32 723 16 325
Respiratory
Pneumonia
Flus
Diabetes
Suicides
Crimes and murders
Unknown causes
21 MR-I-SEC-DELIRIUM

14

16 274 11 166 9 008 8118 7156 361 87 201
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
In the years after we first met at Père Lachaise, our friendship became
increasingly narrow. Raoul taught me so much.
- You're so naive, Michael! You imagine how the world is kind and therefore the
best way to put you there is to toimême be nice. But you're wrong. Active your
memory a little. The future does not belong to the Gentiles but innovators,
bold, for those who are afraid of nothing.
- You are not afraid of anything, you?
- You're welcome.
- Not even physical suffering?
- Just wanting to not suffer.
To better show me, he took out his lighter and plunged his index finger in the
flame until the air is impregnated with the smell of burnt horn. I was both
fascinated and disgusted.
- Wow! How do you do it?
- I first performs the void in my mind, and then I tell myself that someone else
suffered this pain for me and does nothing.
- Are not you afraid of fire?
- Nest e water, or earth or metal. He who fears nothing is almighty and nothing
will be denied. This is my lesson number two. The first was a two-franc piece
will be your best counselor. The second is that fear exists only if you allow it
to exist.
- This is your father who taught you that?
- He said to never look back while climbing a mountain. If you look, you may
feel dizzy, panic
33
and falling. But if you climb right to the top, you will always be safe.
- But if you have no fear, what pushes you to move on?
- The mystery. The need to solve the mystery of the death of my father and that
of death in general.
As he pronounced the words, his right hand still so like a spider came covering
his forehead like to hold an indescribable torment. His eyes bugged out as if
his skull was eaten from the inside.
I was worried
- You do not feel well?
It took a long time to respond. Then, like catching his breath and his wits
- Just a headache. It will pass, 'he said harshly.
It was the only time I saw him prey to a crisis. For me, Raoul was a superman.
He was a master.
Raoul impressed me. As it was my older than a year, I gave a push to skip a
class and find myself on the same benches as him. Then everything became easy.
It allowed me to copy his homework and out of class, he continued to tell me
wonderful stories.
Everyone in the class, did not share my enthusiasm. Professor of French students
had nicknamed Razorbak "Mr. I-delirium-dry".
- Hold on tight. Today, "Mr. I-delirium-dry" sends a copy to your sides
laughing. The subject I had given you was, I want to remind you: "Tell your
ideal holiday." Ah! "Mr. I-delirium-dry" did not go walking in Le Touquet side
of Saint-Tropez, La Baule or Barcelona or London. No, spun him squarely in the
land of the dead. And ... he sends us postcards.
General sneer.
. - I quote: "As my boat was heading toward the light, I clung to the boa
because a fiery serpent had appeared at the front of the ship Nephtis goddess
advised me not to panic and to keep me course. The Isis princess, she handed me
her ankh to repel the monster. "

15

The students laughed in nudging while the teacher concluded, PhD
- "Mr. I-delirium-dry", I can only advise you to use the care of a good
psychoanalyst or a psychiatrist
34
be. In the meantime, know that you have escaped the zero points. I will have put
1 in 20, just for making me laugh as much reading you. Besides, I always look
for your copy first so I am sure to have a good time with you. Continue so well,
sir Razorbak, and I will laugh for a long time because you undoubtedly redouble
this class.
Raoul did not blink. He was impervious to such remarks, especially from a man
such as this French teacher for whom he felt no esteem. The problem came from
elsewhere. The class itself.
As in most schools, students of our school were cruel teenagers, and it was
enough that designates their finger to a socalled "marginal" for they give the
kill. In our class, the ringleader was a cocky kid named Martinez. With his
associates, they chased us out and we encircled.
- Princess Isis, Isis princess, they chanted. You want my ankh in the figure?
I was very scared. To free myself, I threw a big kick in the shin wholesale
Martinez and in return, it made me break the nose of a punch. My face was
bleeding. We were two against six but the problem was that Raoul, though much
larger and stronger than me, seemed to have given up defending themselves. He
was not fighting. He received blows without returning!
I yelped.
- Come on, Raoul! We will have them as Belzébuthiens. You and me against the
fools, Raoul!
He did not move. We soon fall to us in a deluge of punches and kicks. Faced with
this lack of resistance, the tape wholesale Martinez got tired and went with V
of victory. I stood up, massaging me bumps.
- You were scared? I questioned.
- No, dit-il.
- Why did you not beat you, then?
- What's the point? I have no energy to waste on trifles. Anyway, I do not know
how to fight against primitive minds, he added, picking up his broken glasses.
- But you were able to put to flight the Belzébuthiens!
- It was a game And then they were perhaps wicked but they were much more subtle
than those morons.. Faced with cavemen, I am powerless.
35
We soutînmes each other.
- You and me against the fools, you said.
- Sorry to disappoint you. It is also necessary that fools have a minimum of
intelligence so that I could go to war against them.
I was terrified
- But then types the likes of Martinez break all the time we face.
- Possible, he said soberly. But they will get tired before me.
- What if they kill you?
He shrugged.
- Bah! Life is a passage.
I was overcome by a black premonition. The fools were able to win. Raoul was not
always the strongest. He even had to prove a height of weakness. I sighed.
- Whatever happens, you can even when still count on me to help you in hard
times.
That night I dreamed again that I flew in the clouds to meet a woman in white
satin skeleton mask.
22-PHILOSOPHY Pascal
"The immortality of the soul do we care so much, so deeply affects us that we
must have lost all feeling to be in indifference to know what it is.

16

Our first interest and our first duty is to clarify us on this subject on which
depends all our conduct.
And this is why, among those who are not convinced, I make a vast difference to
those who work with all their might às'en instruct, those who live without in to
trouble and without thinking.
This neglect of a case where it is themselves, their identity, their all,
irritates me more than it affected me. It astonishes and frightens me: it's a
monster to me. I do not say this by the pious zeal of a spiritual devotion. I
hear the contrary we must have this feeling by a principle of human interest. "
Blaise Pascal
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
36
23-FOCUS
I was fourteen when Raoul came for me at home ordered me to hurry. My parents
grumbled. Not only was dinner time but they continued to believe that Raoul
Razorbak exercised on me a very bad influence. As I had recently obtained
excellent grades in math, copying my friend, of course, they hesitated to
deprive me of exit.
Yet they ordered me to be careful and stay on the alert. While building my
scarf, my father whispered to me that this was our best friends were always our
worst troubles.
My mother adds, treacherous
- Me, this is how I define a "friend": this is the one whose betrayal caused the
liveliest surprise.
Raoul pulled me toward the Saint Louis Hospital, explaining to me that had just
create a service bringing together the dying and comatose. "Escort service for
the dying", had they euphemistically baptized. It was installed in the left wing
of an annex building. I asked what he would do in such a place. He replied
bluntly that this visit would be an excellent opportunity for us to learn more.
- More? And on what?
- On death, of course!
The idea of entering a hospital hardly enthused me. The place is filled with
serious adult I would be surprised that they let us play.
Raoul Razorbak, however, was never short of arguments. He told me I read in
newspapers that after people coma woke up and told great stories. These
survivors claimed to have witnessed strange sights. They had not seen boats or
fire-breathing serpents but attractive lights.
- You speak of the experiments at the frontiers of death, what Americans call
the NDE for "Near Death Experience"?
- That's it. The NDE.
Everyone knew what the NDE. They were very fashionable, a moment. There had been
several bestsellers on the subject. Weekly had carried the coverage. And like
all fashions, that one too had eventually fade. After all, we had no proof of
any tangible clue, just some nice stories collected odds and ends.
37
Raoul he would believe in such fables?
He spread before me several newspaper clippings and we knelt to better examine
them. These extracts were not learned from magazines for their seriousness or
rigor of their investigations. Titles in bold characters and drooling announced
color
"Journey beyond death", "Testimony post-coma", "Life after life", "I came back
and I like it", "Death and then after" ...
For Raoul, those words seemed haloed of a particular poetry. After all, his
father was there ...
By way of illustrations, there were only blurred photos with superimposed auras

17

or Hieronymus Bosch paintings reproductions.
In the texts, Raoul stressed in fluorescent yellow few passages he considered
essential: "According to a survey by the American Institute Gallup, eight
million Americans claim to have had an NDE." "A survey shows that in hospitals
37% of comatose claimed to have floated out of their bodies, 23
spotted a tunnel, 16% were caught in a beneficial light. "
I shrugged.
- I do not want thee yield thy your illusions, but ...
- But what?
- I had a car accident. I collapses faster in the air and I got knocked out by
falling. Three hours unconscious. A real coma. And I did not see the shadow of a
tunnel or the least beneficial light.
He seemed surprised.
- Did you see what, then?
- Nothing, exactly. Nothing at all.
My friend looked at me like I was hit with a rare disease caused by a virus not
yet listed.
- You affirm to have been in a coma and I have retained no memory?
- Affirmative.
Raoul thoughtfully scratched his chin and then his face lit
- I know why!
He spared its effects before pronouncing a sentence I long méditerais
- You did not see anything because ... you were not "enough" death.
38
24-THE LAND OF WHITE MONKS
An hour later, we were in front of the Saint-Louis Hospital. The entrance was
lighted. A uniformed guard watched the comings and goings. Taking advantage of
his height, Raoul was wearing a shabby overcoat hoping to grow old. He took me
by the hand. He hoped that together we would go for a father and son visiting
the bedside of a grandmother recovering.
Alas, the keeper was not fooled.
- Say, the youngsters, it has better playgrounds nearby.
- We come to visit our grandmother, said Raoul, the tearful voice.
- How is it called?
Raoul did not hesitate.
- Mrs Saliapino. She is in a coma. She was put in the new support service for
the dying.
What a genius of improvisation! He would have launched Dupuis or Durant, it
would immediately made suspect, but "Saliapino", it was just weird to seem true.
The guard passed a roadside mine. "Accompanying the dying," the expression
caused discomfort immediately. He was certainly aware of the creation of this
service, which had had to talk in the corridors. He changed his mind, waved us
through, almost apologetically to have slowed our race.
We entered a glittering maze. Corridors, hallways still ... We pushed several
doors to discovering As a surprising universe.
It was the second time I entered a hospital but the effect was still confusing.
It was like to be broken into a brightness temple waved wizards dressed in white
and young priestesses naked under their immaculate coat.
Everything was set as per an ancient choreography. Ambulance of packaged
offerings deposited in soiled sheets. Young priestesses unpacked them before
transporting them to the tiled rooms where high priests, with square masks and
their transparent gloves, weighing the tripotaient as if they could be read
omens.
From this vision sprang the beginnings of my medical vocation. The smell of
ether, nurses, white rags, the ability to
39
rummage in my own way the bowels of my contemporaries, that was really

18

interesting. Here lay the real power! I, too, would be a white witch.
Ravi as a gangster who has finally found the room coffresforts, Raoul whispered
in my ear
- Psst ... This way!
We pushed a glass door.
And we nearly retreat before the show. Most patients offered shelter by the
support service of the dying were really bad shape. On our right, a toothless
old, frozen speechless, empuantissait air ten meters around. Nearby, an
emaciated be undefined sex stared unblinkingly a brown spot on the ceiling. A
transparent snot dripping down his nose without considering wipe. Left, a bald
lady had only one tuft of blond dyed hair on his wrinkled forehead. She sought
àréprimer the incessant trembling of his right hand by squeezing it with his
left hand. Obviously, she did not succeed and insulted the rebel member made in
a language incomprehensible off his dentures.
Death, no offense to Raoul, it was not gods, goddesses, monsters, rivers full of
snakes. Death, that was it: people rotting slowly.
My parents were right: death was awful. I would have cleared out on the spot if
Raoul had led me to the lady at the blond tuft.
- Excuse me for disturbing you, ma'am.
- Bb ... ... oon day, she stuttered, shivering as the mind than the body.
- We are both students of journalism school. We would like to interview you.
- For ... Why me? she said with effort.
- Because your case interests us.
- I ... do not ... am ... ... interesting. By tez ...!
Morveu of x, we obtînmes no reaction. We made our way to the smelly grandfather
that we looked like two small pesky mosquitoes. He got mad like we bother him in
pressing occupations
- What, what, what do you want?
Raoul continued his spiel
- Hello, we are students of a school of journalism and
40
we do a story about people who survived a coma.
The old man sat up, very proud
- Of course I survived a coma. Five days in a coma and see, I'm still here!
A light flashed in the eye of Raoul.
- And how was it? he asked, as if speaking to a return from China tourist.
The man looked at him, puzzled
- What do you mean?
- Well, what you felt while you were in a coma?
Obviously, the other did not see where he was going.
- I was five days in a coma, I tell you. Coma, it is precisely when we no longer
feel anything!
Raoul insisted
- You do not have a hallucination? You do not remember a light, a hallway,
anything?
The dying man was angry
- No, but coma is not cinema. First, it is very wrong. Then you wake up and it
suffers from everywhere. It is not a cakewalk. You write in what newspaper?
A nurse comes out of nowhere and immediately began to yelp.
- Who are you? You did not bother to finish my patients? Who gave you permission
to enter here? You can not read? You did not see the sign: "Entry forbidden to
anyone outside the service"?
- You and me against the fools! Raoul launched.
And together, we started at a gallop. We lost ourselves in a maze of tiled
corridors. We crossed a room reserved for burn victims, another for the disabled
engines eventually leading precisely where he should not have. At the funeral
home.
Naked corpses were lined up in twenty chrome trays, his face contorted in an
ultimate pain. Some still had their eyes open.

19

Armed with a clip, a young student was busy removing their rings or alliances.
One of them did not slip. The skin had swollen around the metal. So without
hesitation, students jammed the
41
finger between the blades of the pliers and squeezed. Clack. It fell to the
ground making a noise of metal and meat.
I almost fainted. Raoul dragged me outside. We were both exhausted.
My friend was wrong. My parents were right. Death was something disgusting. He
must not look at her, not approach it, not talk about it and not even think
about it.
25-MYTHOLOGIE Lapp
For the Lapps, life is a soft dough that covers the skeletons. The soul is only
in the bones of the skeleton.
So when they fish the fish, they take good care to remove the flesh without
breaking the slightest edge. They then reject the bony rods in the place where
they caught the fish alive. They believe that nature will take care to replenish
them, and that when they come back a few days, weeks or months later, a new
fresh food await them there.
For them, the flesh is pure ornament around the bones impregnated with true
soul. We find this same respect of the skeleton in the Mongols and Yakuts who
strive to restore intact, standing, bears they killed. And not to risk breaking
delicate bones of the skull, they starve themselves brains, yet delicacy.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
26 - SEPARATION
Shortly after our trip to St. Louis Hospital, the mother of Raoul moved to
province and many years passed before we met again.
My father died the same year from lung cancer. Cigars ten francs had not missed.
Spinach, broccoli and anchovies, I déversai a torrent of tears at his funeral
but no one seemed to care.
Immediately return the funeral, my mother turned into a shrew
42
tyrannical. She began to want to be involved in everything, wanting to monitor
and dictate everything in my life. Without embarrassment, she was rummaging
through my things and thus discovered my diary that I nevertheless thought well
hidden under my mattress. She immediately began to read aloud the best passages
in front of my brother Conrad, delighted with this supreme humiliation.
I took time to recover from this injury. My newspaper had always been for me
like a friend to whom I confided myself without fear of being judged. It was
perhaps not his fault but that friend now, he had indeed betrayed me.
Conrad commented, always smart
- Look, I do not know you pinched for this minx in Beatrice. It is downright
ugly with her quilts and all buttons on the face. You really vicious.
I tried to look good but my mother knew very well that she had deprived me of an
ally. She did not want me to have friends. Not even friends objects. She
considered it sufficient àsatisfaire all my communication needs with the
outside.
- Tell me everything, 'she said. I know how to keep all your secrets, remain
silent as a tomb. Your notebook, anyone could find it. Fortunately though it did
not fall into foreign hands!
I preferred to avoid controversy. I do not retorted that besides his, zero
foreign hands would flood àfouiner authorized under my bed
Unable to additional revenge Conrad sneers showing his diary to him. It did not
stop. He did not need. He had nothing to say to anyone, nor to himself. He was

20

happy like that, to go through life without even trying to understand it.
Having lost my confidant, the absence of Raoul became even heavier. No one else
in high school, wore the slightest interest Ala ancient mythology. To my
classmates, the word "death" did not have any magic, and when I told them about
the bodies, they tended to tap the front of the hand. "You gnognottes of the
tuft, man, fuck you psychoanalyze the Greeks!"
- You're still young for you obsessing over death, admonished me Beatrice. Wait
sixty. It is too early now.
I replied tit for tat
43
- Okay, so let's talk about love! That is a subject which suits the young,
right?
She recoiled in horror. I tried to coax
- But I ask nothing better than to marry you ...
She ran. She then shouted at all the clutter that I was a sex maniac and that I
had even tried to rape her. Plus, I surely was a murderer-criminalassassinmultirécidiviste, otherwise why I would be interested in both death and
corpses?
More confidant newspaper, more friends, no girlfriend, no crooked atom with my
family, life seemed very bland. Raoul did not write me. I was really alone on
this planet.
Fortunately, I had the books. Raoul had not deceived me by saying that the
books, themselves, were friends who never betrayed. The books knew the ancient
mythologies. They were not afraid to talk about death or love.
But every time my eyes were reading the word "dead", I thought back to Raoul. I
knew the death of his father caused him this obsession. He wanted to know what
he could have told him before dying. The father of mine had told me everything
in his lifetime: "Do not do anything stupid," "Stand up straight, here is your
mother", "Beware of those who claim to want to do you good", "Take example
Conrad, "" So you can not eat properly? Towels are not made for dogs, "" Keep it
up and you're going to take you a "," Give me my cigar box "," Mets not your
fingers in the nose, "" Do not cure your teeth with metro tickets, "" Cache well
your money "," What you got to read a book? You better help your mother clear
the table. " The perfect spiritual heritage. Thank you dad.
Raoul was still wrong to polarize over death. Death need not be rocket scientist
to understand: it was simply the end of life. Point to the line. As a film that
stops when you turn off the TV ...
At night I dreamed yet still often as I flew and LAHAUT, I always croisais the
lady in white satin skeletal mask. This nightmare, I had not included in my
notebook.
44
27-HINDU MYTHOLOGY
"Those who know well and those who, in the forest, know that faith is the truth,
those entering the flame, the flame in the day, the day in the bright fortnight,
the fortnight in six months during which the sun rises to the north of those
months in the world of the gods, the world of the Gods in the sun, the sun
flashes in the region. Arrived in the lightning region, a spiritual being arises
that carries in the worlds of Brahman: in these worlds they inhabit distant
unfathomable for them back here below. ".
(Brhadaranyaka-Upanishad)
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
28 - RAOUL IS BACK
From the age of eighteen years, I decided to become a doctor. I began the

21

suitable studies, was it really a coincidence? I chose specializes in anesthesia
and resuscitation.
I found myself in the heart of the temple, head of lives anxious to survive.
Maybe I had also hoped to spawn among the priestesses was said naked under their
white coat. Anyway, I was quick to check that this was mythology. Nurses are
often in a T-shirt.
I was thirty-two when Raoul came without warning in my life. He telephoned and
obviously gave me an appointment at Père Lachaise.
It was even bigger, lanky, thinner than I remembered. It was back in Paris.
After so many years of absence, I was very flattered that his first act was to
reconnect with me.
He had the delicacy not to speak to me at once of death. Like me, he had
matured. No more laughing at everything, indiscriminately àtravers. More games
silly words, puns or contrepèteries.
He was now a researcher in biology at the CNRS, with title of professor. Yet he
began by recalling his mistresses. The
45
Women were only pass in life because they do not understand. They considered it
too ... morbid. He cursed
- Why the prettiest girls-they are always the most stupid?
- Why do not you then dredges the ugly? I replied.
We should have but we guffaw childhood had passed. He just smiled.
- And you, Michael, you go out much?
- Not really.
He gave me a big pat on the back.
- Too shy, eh?
- Too imaginative, perhaps. I sometimes dream that somewhere a charming princess
and she expects me and nobody else.
- You think the Sleeping Beauty? But if you go out with a girl before meeting
her, it's like you're the wrong beforehand.
- Exactly. That is the impression that I feel every time.
The arachnéides hands of Raoul fluttered around me, surrounding me with their
protective presence. How could I have lived so long away from him and his
madness?
- Ah ..., he sighed. You're too mushy, Michael. This world is too hard for
dreamers like you. You have to arm yourself to learn how to fight.
We évoquâmes nostalgically our skirmish with the Belzébuthiens. He then spoke of
his research. He currently was working on hibernating marmots. Like many other
animals, marmots were able to stay three months, heart slowed to 90 ° / o,
without breathing, without eating, without moving, without sleep. Raoul had
pushed away the phenomenon. After sleep, he would graze limbo of death. To cause
an even deeper artificial hibernation in a marmot, it was enough to plunge in a
cold bath at 0 ° C. The internal temperature dropped quickly, the heartbeat
slowed to the point of completely stopping the beast but did not die, however.
It was possible to revive a half-hour later, just by rubbing.
I suspected my friend to describe what we hibernation, doctors, called "coma".
However, his experiments were successful and in international conventions, some
already nicknamed "the Arousing frozen marmots."
46
Point blank, I asked him if he had discovered other ancient texts on the
afterlife. He brightened immediately. He had not dared to hope that I would
approach so fast his favorite subject.
- The Greeks! if he exclaimed with relish. The Greeks believed in concentric
circles and universe. Each universe contained a smaller universe than him, then
another even smaller, like a target. At the center of it was the Greek world,
the one where people lived.
Raoul was launched.
- So, in the center, the Greeks in the first world. Then around, circling the

22

barbarians of the second world, these being themselves surrounded by a third,
the world of monsters, including, among other hideous creatures boreal lands.
I recapitulated
- Men, barbarians, monsters, three layers, right?
- No, he corrected quickly, much more. After the world of monsters, just the
sea. There is lile of the Blessed, where the immortal paradise resident. There
also is leading the Dream, crossed by a river that flows only at night. It is
covered with lotus flowers. In its center is located the city of four doors. Two
let in nightmares, two others open to delicious dreams. Hypnos, the god of
dreams, the four control issues.
- Ouaah!
- After the sea, continued Raoul, there was again a land. It is the shore of the
continent from the dead. The trees there are as dried fruit. This is where all
the ships fail and everything ends.
There was a silence, furnished tower decors heavenly or hellish ride. Raoul
broke the spell by asking me about my anesthesiologist-intensivist business. He
multiplied the technical issues. He wanted to know what products I used for my
human, believing they might as well use it for its marmots.
29 -The notice DOCTOR PINSON
A. Comas
According to my friend Dr. Michael Pinson, there are three common forms of coma
47
Coma 1: Coma vigil. Consciousness is abolished but the patient reacts to
external stimuli. It can last thirty seconds àtrois days.
Coma 2: The patient no longer responds to external stimuli, whether we like it
or clamp spades. It can last up to a week.
Coma 3: Deep Coma. Cessation of all forms of activity. Decerebration movements.
The upper limbs are like paralyzed. The heartbeat becomes irregular
(defibrillation). According to Michael, it is impossible to get out of this type
of coma.
B.
1)
2)
3)

Field Effects
mydriasis (pupil dilation complete).
Paralysis.
Deviation of the mouth.

C. How to make a coma patient?
Methods used by Michael
1) cardiac massage.
2) upper airway intubations.
3) Electric shock from 200 to 300 joules.
4) intracardiac injections of adrenaline.
D. How to cause a coma?
Products used by Michael
1) Sodium.
2) Thiopental (provide agitation on awakening), propofol (rapid falling asleep,
waking without problems).
3) Droperidol (less powerful effects, transient analgesia, feelings of
disconnection of a duration of one hour after awakening, risk of cardiac
arrest). We must adapt the dosage to the patient's weight.
4) Potassium chloride (causes heart disease and ventricular fibrillation).
E. Heart rates in humans
Normal: between 65 and 80 beats / minute.
At the lowest: 40 beats / minute.
Some yogis down to 38 but these are exceptional cases.
Minimum: below 40 heart beats / minute,

23

48
net reduction of cerebral flow, risk of syncope (brief loss of consciousness
lasting less than two minutes). The subject is usually no memory of the
incident.
Maximum: 220 beats / minute under the age of the subject.
Working Notes thanatonautiques research. Raoul Razorbak.
30 -Manuel HISTORY
The thanatonautique born of a fortuitous incident. Most historians date from the
day of the attack against President Lucinder.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
31
-THE PRESIDENT LUCINDER
Standing in his black limousine, President Lucinder saluted the crowd, the
rueful smile. In fact, he was in agony as he suffered from ingrown nail in his
toe. It was no consolation to think that Jules Caesar had probably also been
plagued by such vicissitudes in its large military parades. And Alexander the
Great with his syphilis? In addition, at the time, no one knew the cure ...
Jules César was always behind him a slave in charge of both brandishing his
laurel crown and repeat it regularly has the ear: "Remember that you are a man."
Lucinder did not need slave to remember him, his ingrown toenail enough there.
He greeted the crowd that ovationnait while wondering how to get rid of. His
doctor advised him an operation, but so far the leader of the Nation had yet
never lying on a pool table. He did not like the idea of being asleep while
unknown hidden under gauze masks and armed with sharp blades tripoteraient his
throbbing flesh. Of course, he could also use his special pedicure. The d °
rnier promised to overcome the problem without going through the operating room
but it would have to be cut to the sharp toe without anesthesia. Nothing to
write home about.
What a source of problems that human castoff! Always something wrong somewhere.
Rheumatism, caries, a
49
conjunctivitis ... Last week Lucinder had been tormented by a revival of his
ulcer.
- So do not worry, jeans, had advised his wife. You're upset because of South
America. You'll feel better tomorrow. According to a proverb from my home, "be
healthy means to be sick all day in a different place."
Very funny! Still, she had served her some warm milk and the pain had subsided.
The ingrown toenail proved tougher.
"Vive Lucinder!" They cried around. "Lucinder, president!" Chanted a group. Ah,
this new mandate! He would have to worry about soon. The voting was close.
Without this cursed toe Lucinder had had a good time in the cheers. He loved
walkabouts. He kissed a little girl with rosy cheeks a woman waving under his
nose. The girl gave him a kind of bouquet to cause every time an allergy.
The car started up again. He tried to wiggle her toes a little trapped in the
stiff new shoes when a large type three-piece suit rushed toward him, revolver
in hand. Gunshots echoed in his ears.
- Well, they kill me! calmly thought President.
It was the first and last time, surely. The warm blood running down his navel.
Lucinder smiled. It was a good way to make history with a capital H. His
predecessor, President Congomas, saw his mandate prematurely shortened by
prostate cancer. Something to laugh posterity.

24

He was lucky with his technocrat black revolver. The murdered presidents had
always entitled to the honors of textbooks. We boast their grandiose visions,
daring their projects. Children recite his praises in schools. There were no
other immortality.
Lucinder saw his assassin melted into the crowd. And his bodyguards who stood
there without reacting! What a lesson! You should not rely on these
professionals to nuts.
Who and hated to the point of organizing his death? Well, he did not care now.
Nothing was more important, including its ingrown toenail cursed. Death was the
best remedy against all the minor ailments of life.
- A doctor! Quick, a doctor! shouted someone near him.
These people are silent ... There was no practitioner can
SO
help. It was too late. A bullet had pierced his heart. It was not that he had to
fetch a doctor, rather a new president to replace him while he would join
Caesar, Abraham Lincoln and Kennedy in the firmament of great men of State
murdered.
Arms do not hoisted least Lucinder on a stretcher. The locked him in an
ambulance with sirens blaring unbearable. Invisible specialists placed a mirror
to her mouth, massaged his lungs. There was even an inconsiderate enough to dare
a word-of-mouth.
He did not die less. Memories marched full speed in his mind. Four years: his
first and undeserved slap his first aggressiveness. Seven years: first roll of
honor thanks to a neighbor who had left copy its composition. Seventeen years:
his first daughter (he had seen since; it had been a mistake: it was awful).
Twenty-one years: degree in history, this time without cheating. Twenty-three
years
control of ancient philosophy. Twenty-five years of doctoral ancient history.
Twenty-seven years: admission to the Social Democratic Party through the
relationships of his father and already a slogan for his future career
"Those familiar with the past are best able to build the future."
Twenty-eight years: marriage with the first "chick" (united actress he had
forgotten the name). Twenty-nine years: first first down and betrayals blows to
rise within the party apparatus. Thirty-two years: election for mayor of
Toulouse, fortune built on the sale of municipal land, first master paintings,
antique sculptures first, mistresses galore. Thirty-five years: election to the
National Assembly, first castle in Lozère. Thirty-six years: divorce and
remarriage to the second "chick" (German supermodel, chick peas for brains but
legs to die for a saint). Thirty-seven years: outbreaks Mouflets in every
corner. Thirty-eight years: short crossing of the desert caused by the case of
kickbacks on the sale of Pakistani aircraft.
Thirty-nine years: rapid return to the political scene through new nuptials (the
daughter of President Congomas, a good choice this time). Appointment to the
Foreign Ministry and first truly repugnant action: organizing the assassination
of the President of Peru, replaced by a puppet.
Forty-five years: death of President Congomas. Lucinder campaign for the
presidency of the beautiful French Republic with a fully funded by the Peruvian
countryside. New slogan
51
"Lucinder studied history, now he writes." Failed. Fiftytwo years: new election.
Victory Power. Finally the Elysee. Control of the Secret Service. Private museum
of antiquities discreetly "recovered" abroad. Caviar with a ladle. Fifty-five
years: threats of nuclear war. The enemy is frightened, backward, and Lucinder
miss the first good opportunity to make history.
Fifty-six years: the mistresses of increasingly younger. Fifty-seven years:
meeting with his first real friend, Vercingetorix, a black labrador, suspicion,
he, of careerism.
Finally, fifty-eight and conclusion, the moment of this beautiful biography of

25

the great man murdered during a walkabout àVersailles.
More bubbles mirrors. A life, even as President, not more than that. Dust, you
return to the dust. Ash, you return to the ashes. Maggot, you end up in the
stomachs of maggots.
If only he was allowed to die in peace! Even maggots are entitled to the final
tranquility. But no, raises his eyelids, it is placed on a pool ... It is
fiddles, one undresses, it plugs into the complicated devices and around him, it
chatters, it chatters. "Doing everything to save the President," they repeated.
Fools!
What good is all that effort? He felt very tired invade. It was as if life was
leaving gradually. Exactly that. It came out. He felt that it came out. Not
possible! jean Lucinder felt ... he left. He came out of his body. Yikes! He
really went out of his body. He finally it or what else? There was something
else ... how could we call it? His soul? Its intangible body? His ectoplasm? His
thought materialized? He was transparent and lightweight. It is separated, it is
désincrustait, it's scindait. What a feeling!
It took off, abandoned his skin, like an old worn garment. It rose, rose, rose
again. He no longer suffered toes. It was so light!
... His new "self" lingered for a moment on the ceiling. From there, he
contemplated the elongated body, and all these experts in the very aggressive
treatment. No respect for his remains. They opened his chest, broke his ribs,
electrodes planted directly into his heart muscle!
Needless to stay longer here, it was called elsewhere. A transparent string,
sort of umbilical cord still connected him with his
52
human carcass. She stretched, silver and elastic cord, as and àmesure he walked
away from it.
He crossed the ceiling, passed through several stages filled with patients.
Finally, it was the roof and then the sky. A benevolent light was called off.
Fantastic! Other people, many more people were flying around him, like him
stretching their silver cord. He had the impression of participating in a great
celebration.
But suddenly his own silver cord stopped to stretch, it hardens, tensed, were
fired from below! He had to make àl'évidence: Lucinder no longer dying. Other
ectoplasm looked at him without understanding: why does he still further
forward? Pulled the cord, the elastic retracted sharply. He recrossed the roof,
ceilings, he returned to the operating room and saw the nurses who dumps him let
loose several hundred volts directly into the heart. "It is forbidden to do
that!" He had passed a law that, two years ago to limit aggressive therapy. He
remembered it, it was Article 676
"When the heart activity ceases, it will not perform any manipulation,
aggression or operation that may force the heart failed to restart." But as he
was president we obviously felt that his life was above the law. Ah, the
bastards! Ah, the little motherfuckers! Once again he found the inconvenience of
being the most important man in the country. At that moment he had only one
desire: to be a bum that nobody cared. Bum, beggar, worker, housewife, anything,
but we left alone. That he be given the easing of death. This is the first right
of a citizen: to die in peace.
has loudly. money
Floup, he rejoined his former corpse. What unpleasant sensation! Ouch, he
already felt again his ingrown toenail! And ribs that had been broken to reach
the heart. In addition we dropped it a new electric shock, this time it was
very, very wrong.
He opened his eyes. Obviously the doctors and nurses shouted for joy and
congratulating each other. The fools ...
- We did it, we did it!
- His heart beats again, it breathes, it is saved!
Saved? Sauvé, who saved from what? No of them, anyway. It

26

"Let me die! Let me die!" He yelled But his ectoplasm had no voice. The cord
always resulted lower. He could not go back.
53
suffered, he suffered. He stammered in a face something incomprehensible. "Stop
landfills, close the chest!"
He wanted to shout, "Close the door, there are drafts." He was wrong, so wrong
in all his nerves.
So you are again, my aching body.
He opened an eyelid, there were plenty of people around his bed
He hurt so badly. All his nerves were on edge. He closed his eyes to enjoy even
a moment of respite and remember the wonderful bright country up there in the
sky.
Fiche 32 POLICE
Application of basic descriptive information
Name: Lucinder
First name: jean
Hair: Black
Eyes:
Size: 1 m 78
Distinguishing features: None
Comment: Pioneer movement thanatonautique
Weakness: President of the Republic
33 - THE MINISTER MERCASSIER
Fully furnished in Louis XV style, the presidential office was very large. The
room was dimly lit, but enough to discern the illustrious paintings and naughty
Greek sculptures. Art was a good way to impress the philistines. Benedict
Mercassier, Minister of Research, knew this. He also knew that even if he could
not see his face, the president Lucinder was there, sitting in front of him. The
desk lamp lighted only his hands but the thick outline was familiar to him, the
black Labrador, at his feet, too.
It was the first meeting between the two men since the attack that almost cost
his chief in the nation. Why the President had he contacted him precisely when
there were so many
54
domestic and foreign policy issues to address far greater urgency as problems of
researchers always looking for subsidies?
As Mercassier was tired of silence dragged on, he dared to break it first. He
hesitated and opted for some occasional banalities
- How are you, Mr. Speaker? It seems that you remettiez you well in your
operation. These doctors have performed miracles.
Lucinder thought he would gladly have this kind of miracles. He stepped into the
light. Particularly bright gray eyes rested on the speaker curled up on a chair
in red brocade.
- Mercassier, I called you because I need the opinion of an expert. Only you can
help me.
- I'd be delighted, Mr. President. What is it?
Leaning back, Lucinder plunged back into the darkness. It was strange, the least
of his gestures exuded an unusual majesty. As for his face, he seemed to have
become suddenly more ... (Mercassier was surprised the adjective that came to
mind) more human.
- You have a trained biologist, is not it? Lucinder issued. Tell me, what do you
think of post-comatiques experiences?
Mercassier stared at him, dumbfounded. The President is annoyed
- The NDE, the Near Death Experiences, people who at the last moment out of

27

their bodies and then come back because, finally, thanks to the progress of
medicine?
Benedict Mercassier could not believe his ears.
Behold Lucinder, so realistic usual, was interested now to mystical phenomena.
What it was like to have witnessed death! He hesitated.
- I think it is a fashion, a social phenomenon that will pass like many others
before him. People need to believe in the marvelous, the supernatural, that
there is something other than this materialistic world down here. While some
writers, gurus, charlatans take the opportunity to make their goodwill by
telling nonsense. This need is always rooted in man. Religions are proof. Just
promise paradise in an imaginary future for people to more easily swallow the
bitter pill of this. Gullibility, naivety and stupidity.
- That's really what you think?
55
- Of course. What better than a dream beyond paradise? What more "fake" dream?
Lucinder coughed
- And yet, if there was any truth in these tales ...?
The Scientific sneered
- Since the time as existing evidence. This is the story of the man who saw the
man who saw the man who saw the man who saw the bear. Nowadays, everything works
in reverse. This is to skeptics to prove that their doubts are founded. Just as
anyone who announces the end of the world for tomorrow requires specialists that
they prove that it will not happen.
Lucinder tried to impartiality.
- No evidence, you say? Maybe there are none because no one has tried it? Is it
only a formal study on this subject?
- Uh, not to my knowledge, made Mercassier, troubled. So far, we stuck to record
doubtful accounts. What's happening? This topic you he interested?
- Oh! yes, Benoit! exclaimed Lucinder. Many even, because the man who saw the
bear, as you say, and even directly, well that's me.
The Minister of Research contemplated his chair in disbelief. He wondered if,
after all, the attack had not left at his vis-à-vis irreversible sequelae. His
heart was reached, the brain had not been irrigated during several minutes. Some
areas would they necrotic? Would he now suffered from psychotic delusions?
- Stop staring at me so, Benoit! exclaimed harshly Lucinder. I just tell you
that I had a NDE, I will not establish a Communist state!
- I do not think you instinctively replied the scientist.
The President shrugged.
- I would not have believed it myself if this had not happened. But then, it
happened to me. I glimpsed a wonderful continent and I would learn it.
- Glimpsed ... In your eyes see?
- Of course.
Always rational, offered an explanation Mercassier
- Before dying, the body often produces morphine
56
natural abundance. What intoxicate the dying before the departure, like a little
gluttony chemical as an ultimate fireworks ... There are surely enough there to
cause some fantastic hallucinations, "wonderful continent" and others. This is
probably what happened to you on the operating table.
In the glow of the desk lamp, Lucinder had not hallucinated the air. On the
contrary. His brain be still damaged? Was it necessary to alert the other
ministers, the press, the President put out of harm's way before it commits the
country to some insane operation? Benoit Mercassier wrung his hands under his
seat. But in the face, his interlocutor was already back, very quiet
- I know the effects of the drug, Benoit. I am already addicted and I know the
difference between a start of overdose and the real. How many times have you not
repeated to me that in any scientific field, simply invest in abundance to

28

achieve rapid results?
- Yes, but ...
- One percent of the budget of Veterans Affairs, awarded in soft, okay?
Mercassier was in agony.
- I refuse. I am a true scientist and I can lend me Aune such masquerade.
- I insist.
- In this case. I would rather resign.
- Really?
34 -Manuel HISTORY
The death of our ancestors
Classified by occupational categories (period), here a comparative table of the
number of persons exceeding the age of 50 years on a basis of a thousand men for
each category. Statistics 1970 (end of the second millennium).
-

Teachers
Senior Managers and professionals
Engineering
Catholic Clergy

732
719
700
692
57
- Farmers
- Entrepreneurs and traders
- Office workers
- Middle management
- Workers
- Agricultural workers
35 AUSTRALIA-NEW
653 631 623 616 590 565
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
The empty mind wandered Benoit Mercassier length on the Champs Elysees. He was
convinced of the absence of NDE and now he was commissioned to prove the
irrefutable reality. Like asking an atheist to demonstrate the existence of God
or a vegetarian publicist promote the merits of the meat.
He knew why Lucinder had elected for this task. The President loved forcing his
men to practice paradox. He forced the right-wing ministers to implement leftist
policies, environmentalists praise the all-nuclear, to advocate protectionist
free trade ...
He still had to allocate two hundred thousand francs to his damn "Paradise
Project." There he was no longer abstract. But from there àprouver we flew out
of his body at the time of his death to win a "wonderful continent" ...
Lucinder was not the first head of state to engage in projects oddballs.
Mercassier remembered that there was already a long time, in the seventies, a
whimsical American president named Jimmy Carter had made up his mind to get in
contact with UFOs. UFO, he believed firmly. It had launched a program
overlapping all the evidence on the famous "Unidentified Flying Objects".
Imagine the mine austere scholars forced to listen hallucinated and illuminated
in the chain! He had squandered taxpayers' money by building a gigantic
transceiver supposed to capture any messages extraterrestrial intelligences and
communicate with them. And he was then surprised not to be re-elected!
Lucinder also ran his Berezina but, meanwhile, Mercassier had no choice. It was

29

either stroking the whims of
58
President in the direction of hair or abandon its portfolio and, naturally, he
was holding his little bit of power. Too bad for the Veterans Affairs! He would
find how to use the famous two hundred thousand francs.
Yes but how? Because whenever he was in doubt, Mercassier immediately thought of
calling at its best and closest adviser: his wife, fold.
To his astonishment, it seemed no surprise when, at dinner, he explained his
problem NDE. While spreading their plates mashed broccoli, it reflects
- What you need to start is to invent an experimental protocol. Inventing a test
answering the question: "Yes or no, there he has something after death?" What
did you as a data starting point?
- Only one, he sighed, but size. The President is convinced he experienced an
NDE!
As always, she comforted
- Be positive. To succeed, we must be convinced beforehand of victory.
- But if he lamented, can not require of me that I believe the NDE. That would
be to ignore everything you taught me in the faculty of sciences!
She cut short his lamentations
- You're not a scientist, you are a politician. So thoughtful politician,
otherwise we will never be released. What he says so, your president?
- He claims to have glimpsed a "wonderful continent" ...
- A "wonderful continent"?
Jill frowned.
- It's funny, it is the employees that have the exact words first European
navigators discovering the continent where I was born: Australia!
- What report? he asked, pouring a glass of wine.
- We gave you a new continent to explore. You must therefore adopt the spirit of
the pioneers of the sixteenth century. They were unaware that there was a land
east of Indonesia. Those who would have said would have gone for amiable weirdos
like you calling nonsense presidential statements.
- Still, there was a palpable continent, with meadows, trees, animals,
aboriginal!
59
- Easy to say xxI` century, but at that time imagine yourself a little? Talk
about southern lands was equally strange that today evoke a continent beyond
death.
If it were not so keen to keep clear mind, Mercassier would willingly emptied
the whole bottle of Bourgueil. A good year, too. Jill continued his reasoning
- Put yourself in the shoes of a minister of that time. On the occasion of a
maritime trip, your king was shipwrecked and is figured foresee a "wonderful
continent." He was rescued by another ship of his squadron before they could
move it but, on his return to his capital, he ordered his transport minister to
take steps to learn about mysterious lile.
Seen in this light, of course ... Jill insisted Mercassier
- You only have to baptize your land of the dead "New Australian" and then adopt
an explorer mentality. The challenge is worthy of our modernity. You imagine,
the XXXI century, some people sneered: "And to think that these arrears were
unaware of the continent from the dead!" In the year 3000, there will still be a
president for àaller look further back in time can -being. And the Minister of
the mission envy that old Mercassier who had received it, a lot easier to
fulfill mandate: just visit the land of the dead ...
His wife was so convincing that Benoit could not help asking him
- But you think it, you, to this continent of the dead?
- Does it matter? What I know is that if I had been the wife of the Minister of
Transport xvte century, I would have advised him to charter vessels and go see
if there was Australia. Anyway, you'll be the man who discovered this unknown
continent, or one who has proved his absence. In both cases, you leave a winner.

30

In turn, Jill grabbed the bottle.
Fixing mashed green, her husband grumbled
- Fine, but what ship to send in such a place?
Suddenly, she emptied her glass
- So we come back to the problem of experimental protocol. Do you want a salad?
No. He was not hungry. His worries were cutting his appetite. This was not the
case for which fetched Jill in the kitchen a bowl of lettuce and tomatoes. All
his business, she sat by summarizing
- Well, we have already decided to call the new continent tone
60
"New Australia". And that we shipped to colonize Australia? Convicts, common law
prisoners, thugs of the worst kind. Why them, precisely?
There Mercassier found himself in his element.
- Because we thought that Australia might be a dangerous country and that it was
better not to send people whose loss would lack for society.
His face brightened as and as he spoke. As usual, Jill had not failed. It had
provided a solution.
- Benoît, you found what sailors leave to assault your new continent. Now, we
must pledge of a captain.
The Minister of Research smiled, reassured
- With that, I have an idea!
36 -MYTHOLOGIE AZTEC
Among the Aztecs, are not the merits acquired during life that determine the
existence in the afterlife, but the circumstances surrounding the death.
The best way to die is to die in battle. It leads Quanteca (Eagle companions) to
Tonatiuhichan, East haven where the deceased will sit alongside the god of war.
The death by drowning or disease related to water (like leprosy) induces a trip
to the Tlalocan, paradise of Tlaloc, god of rain.
Those who have not been recognized by any god go to Mictlan, place of hell where
they undergo four years of trials before the final dissolution.
This is the domain of Mictlantecuhtli, the underworld. It enters through the
caves. The soul must cross eight stays underground before reaching the ninth
world.
First obstacle: the Chicnahuapan, a river that the dead must cross by clinging
to the tail of a previously sacrificed red dog on his grave. Animals sacrificed
at funerals serve psychopomps, that is to say, they guide the soul through the
land of the dead.
Second obstacle: two mountains colliding at irregular intervals.
61
Third obstacle climb a mountain with steep trails covered with sharp stones.
Fourth obstacle undergo an obsidian wind, icy storm tapered carting stones.
Fifth obstacle passing between giant flags flapping in the eye.
Sixth obstacle: under fire arrows seeking àtranspercer the deceased.
Seventh obstacle massive attack of ferocious animals eager to swallow his heart.
Eighth obstacle: a narrow defile where the dead may be lost.
He finally won access to dissolution.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
37-ABOUT
Raoul Razorbak reminded me a few weeks later. He was anxious to see me. His
voice was strange and it seemed a prey to emotion. For once, it not appointments
PèreLachaise but stared at me in his home, in his apartment.
It was hardly recognized him when I opened the door. He was still thin and wore
the expression that I had learned to recognize in schizophrenics from the

31

hospital.
- Ah! Michael, finally!
He pointed to a chair by advising me of me back comfortably. His presentation
would surprise me.
Would he obtained unexpected results in his research on hibernation marmots? But
what do they concern me? I was a doctor, not a biologist.
- Have you heard of the attack suffered by the president Lucinder?
Of course I had heard of it. No one in the country could not escape. The press,
television, radio had made their headlines. Our head of state had been shot at
close range the occasion of a walkabout in Versailles. The best specialists of
the fired last minute deal. What this incident was it linked àl'agitation my
friend?
- The next day, President Lucinder instructed its Minister of Research and ...
62
He stopped and grabbed me - Follow me.
38-MANUAL HISTORY
The first xenografts were established in the mid-twentieth century, specifically
in the years 1960-1970. Therefore, the sick man became like a car that was
enough to change defective parts. So, death took figure of simple mechanical
accident. If there were deaths, it was lack of proper replacement parts.
Researchers conceived pig hearts with genetic characters corresponding to human
receptacles where they would be located. The techniques for supporting foreign
bodies were constantly improved. Everything was replaceable, except the brain.
And again!
It became logical to think that one day we manage to overcome all the failures,
including the Supreme failure: death. It was only a matter of technology.
Simultaneously, the lifespan lengthened. Having the appearance of old age was
synonymous with neglect. Each of properly maintain its biological mechanics.
We hid shriveled old or unsavory aspects to better show off those who practiced,
radiant, tennis or reach on foot race. At the time, it was thought that the best
way to fight against death was to camouflage the warning symptoms.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
39 -AMANDINE
My friend Raoul pushed me in his convertible Renault 20 ancient and started with
a bang.
- Where you drive me?
- Where it all happens.
I could not get more out of him. The wind carried my questions as answers.
Whatever it was, we left Paris. I shudder when he finally slowed to a sign
sinister: H Penitentiary Fleury-Merogis. "
From the outside, the place looked more like a small town or
63
a hospital than a prison. Raoul parked in the adjacent parking lot and led me to
the entrance. He introduced an authorization, me my identity card. We crossed an
airlock, drove through a long corridor, knocked at a door.
A man opened already upset us. His face was still frowned at the sight of
Razorbak for his cheerful part.
- Greetings, Mr. Director. I wanted to introduce Dr. Michael Pinson. You will
need to provide it with a pass as soon as possible. Thank you in advance.
Before the director could answer, we were already in new corridors. I had the
impression that the guards that we met considered us askance.
We found ourselves in a courtyard. We were at the center of the prison-town. It
was huge. Five blocks of buildings stretched to the horizon. Each harbored in

32

its center a football field. Raoul explained that detainees practiced
tremendously sports, but at that time they were still confined to their cells.
Fortunately, as many seemed very upset me our presence. Clinging to the bars of
the first stages, they roared
- Refuse, bastards, you will have your skin!
Obviously, the guards did not put any zeal to silence.
A voice was cut
- We know what you make in the D2. People like you do not deserve to live!
I was getting worried. What had been my friend Raoul, who went on his way
recklessly, to put these men in such a state of rage? I knew as his passions
could lead to the far, far beyond any same reason.
D2 building. I followed the reprobate, less desire to learn as not to remain
alone, raging between prisoners and equally hostile guards. Still corridors,
armored doors and unlocking. Stairs. Other stairs. The impression of a descent
into hell. From below came from fat laughter mingled with many complaints. Is it
locked crazy here?
Further down still lower. Darker, darker still. I thought of the method invented
by Aesculapius to treat insanity. There was that more than three thousand years
in a care facility Esclapion called and you can still see the ruins of which in
Turkey, it
64
pioneer of psychiatry had installed a maze of dark tunnels. After a long wait
during which they had been conditioned to expect the supreme pleasure, there
drove demented. Chants echoed from the entrance and we plunged into the dark
labyrinth, they became more melodious. When charmed, the insane stopped
àl'endroit the darkest, we poured over him a barrel full of slimy snakes under
which struggled so unhappy, surprised at the height of bliss. Either he died on
the spot from fright, or it appeared healed. In fact, Asclepius had invented the
electric shock.
I, adrift in the basements of Fleury-Merogis, I wondered when I would receive my
barrel of icy reptiles.
It was then that Raoul exhibited a rusty key which opened a large studded door.
I discovered behind a large shed that looks like a mess as there was great
disorder. There were three men in sweatpants and a young blond woman wearing a
black blouse that gave me a sense of déjà vu.
The men rose and bowed respectfully my friend.
- I present Dr. Michael Pinson, whom I have already spoken.
- Thank you for coming, doctor, they exclaimed in unison.
- Miss Ballus, our nurse, Raoul continued.
I greeted the girl and saw that she was sizing me look.
The place would be a disused Lazaretto. On my right, a laboratory bench was
littered with smoldering vials, probably liquid nitrogen. In the center of the
room sat an old dentist's chair, for flat places, and identified twisted son of
congested electric machines and flashing screens.
The set looked like the garage of a Sunday handyman. To see the status of
devices, handles and rusty levers, I wondered even if Raoul had not made the
garbage universities. The screens of oscilloscopes were cracked, the electrodes
of cardiographs blackened by age.
However, I myself had enough laboratories used for that flawless and immaculate
vision that always give movies is usually wrong. In reality, no mattresses or
nickel coats just out of the laundry, instead of types mittees sweaters in
makeshift premises.
A friend working on a yet as important as the trajectory of thought through the
brain meanders had only shelter for a car park located in the basement of the
Bichat hospital
65
everything entrechoquait every noisy passage of the subway. Lack of funds, he
was unable to gain support for its metal brain wave receiver and had resolved to

33

tinker a wooden thing, glued and reinforced with tape with thumbtacks. Yes, even
in France, research is no longer what it was.
- My dear Michael, are performed the most daring experiments of our generation,
pompously declared Raoul, pulling me from my thoughts. Long ago, do you remember
we talked about death in our meetings at Pere Lachaise. I then evoked as an
unexplored continent. Now here, we try to plant flags.
This was it. The barrel of snakes had fallen on my head. Raoul Raoul Razorbak,
my best and oldest friend, had gone mad. Now he was engaged in experiments on
the dead! As I stood dazed, he explained
- President Lucinder has experienced an NDE during his recent attack in
Versailles. He therefore instructed Mercassier Benedict, his Minister of
Research, launching a study program on beyond the coma. It turns out that he had
read my articles on "put in artificial hibernation marmots surges" in
international journals. He contacted me and asked if I could reproduce such
experiments on humans. I jumped at the chance. My marmots were perhaps parts in
another world, but they were unable to tell me what they had seen it. Men,
themselves, would know. Yes, my dear, I have the green light from the government
for research on NDEs, using volunteers also common prisoners. These gentlemen
are our pilots beyond. This is, um ...
He thought a moment as if looking for inspiration.
- These are ...
Then his face lit
- ... Tha-na-to-nauts. Greek, thanatos, death, and Communities, browser.
Thanatonautes of. Nice word in truth. Thanatonaute. - He repeated again. Thanatonaute: a word of the same family, so that a cosmonaut or astronaut. This
will become the reference generic name. We finally coined the term. We use
Thanatonautes to make tha-na-to-Water.
He listened to himself, to his own delight.
- Consequently, our hangar is a thanatodrome, since by taking off our ...
Thanatonautes.
66
A new vocabulary was born in the slums of Fleury-Merogis. Raoul beamed.
The blonde girl produced a bottle of sparkling wine and biscuits. Everyone
profit baptism. Only I remained dark and pushed the flute Raoul handed me.
- Excuse me. I do not want to play spoilsport but if I understood, here, we play
with life. These gentlemen mission to conquer the land of the dead, right?
- Yes, Michael. Fabulous, right?
Raoul raised his hand, pointing a dirty ceiling stains.
- And what a tremendous challenge for our generation and future generations: the
exploration of the afterlife.
I disengaged myself.
- Raoul, Madame, gentlemen, I say very quietly, I see myself obliged to leave
you. I have no need of suicidal fools or not they enjoy the support of their
government. With that, I salute you.
I walked swiftly towards the exit when the nurse grabbed my arm. For the first
time, I heard the sound of his voice.
- Wait, we need you.
She had not begged, she had spent almost coldly indifferent. The one she was
used in the exercise of his profession to demand of cotton wool or scalpel
chrome finish.
I met his eyes. She had the eyes of a rare color blue with a bit of beige in the
center, similar to an iris on a lost island ocean. I immediately plunged as into
a black abyss.
She continued to stare at me without me smile without really amenity. As if the
mere fact of having spoken to me already the largest concessions. I recoiled. I
could not wait to escape this deadly place.
Fiche 40 POLICE
Application of basic descriptive information

34

Name:
Name:
Blond
Eyes:

Ballus
Ama Ndine
Hair
Navy

67
Size: 1 m 69
Distinguishing features: None
Comment: A pioneer in the movement thanatonautique
Weakness: Very focused on sex
41 - MYTHOLOGIE AMAZON
The creative Principle of the world once decided to make the immortal men. He
commanded them: "... Go to the river banks will unfold three canoes Please do
not stop the first two Expect the third and embrace the spirit that is in
place."
Before the first canoe, responsible for rotting meat covered with vermin and
exhaling foul odors, the Indians retreated, disgusted. But when appeared the
second they saw a àforme human death and rushed to comfort him. It was too late
when came the spirit of the creative Principle in the third vessel. He saw with
horror that the men had embraced death. So they had made their choice.
Fa thesis extract this Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
42 - PROGRESSIVE SLIP TO CRIME
For about two weeks, I had no news of my former friend the professor and his
Razorbak thanato-thing. I admit, I was very disappointed. Raoul, the idol of my
youth had managed to realize his fantasies and I was disgusted. I even thought
to report it to the police. If it was conducting "deadly" experiments on human
guinea pigs, it was necessary to put it out of harm's way.
In the name of our old friendship, yet I refrained. I told myself that if he had
received, as he claimed, the support of the Head of State was that he had been
able to provide adequate safeguards.
"We need you," said the young nurse and this phrase haunted me. What would they
need me to kill people? A little cyanide or death rat poison, and presto! I had
taken the Hippocratic oath and one of the major rules of my job was to save
lives, not to shorten them.
68
When Raoul reminded me, I wanted to tell him that I never wanted to hear from
him and his experiences but something held me back, perhaps our old friendship,
perhaps the words of the nurse who still ringing in my ears.
He visited me in my studio. He seemed to have aged and even read his nervousness
in his eyes. He had probably not slept for several days. He lit the chain of
fine cigarettes àl'eucalyptus say "biddies" he aspired to a few puffs.
- Michael, do not judge me.
- I do not judge you. I try to understand you and I do not understand you.
- Whatever the individual Razorbak. Only the project account. It transcends
beings. It is a challenge to live up to our generation. I shock you, but all
precursors were deemed offensive by their contemporaries. Rabelais, the jovial
writer Rabelais, was traveling at night in cemeteries to dig up the corpses and
study anatomy to advance medicine. At the time, such actions constitute a crime.
But it is thanks to him we understood later that the blood circulation and has
saved lives through transfusions. Michael, if you had lived then and if Rabelais
had asked you to help him in his nocturnal expeditions, what would you say?
I weighed the matter.
- I would have said okay, I answered finally. Okay, for his patients ... were

35

already dead. But your guinea pigs, Raoul, for your famous Thanatonautes are
just guinea pigs, they are alive, them! And all your manipulations that aim to
make them pass from life to death, am I wrong? Yes or no?
Raoul fidgeted with his lighter his long restless hands. No flame gushes. Either
he was shaking too much to operate the mechanism or the stone was worn.
- You're not wrong, he said, is controlling. Initially, we had five
Thanatonautes and two have already died. They are stupidly dead, simply because
I am not a doctor and I did not know the CPR. I know how to place hibernating
marmots and bring them back to life, but in terms of human beings, I am not. I
do not know how exactly dose anesthetics. So in order to put an end to this
mess, I called in to help, you and your mind both imaginative and resourceful.
I handed him the matches.
69
- Anesthetize people, it is certainly my job. Put them in a coma, is another
matter.
He got up and paced the room.
- Think. Innove! I need you, Michael. You told me once that I could always count
on you. Well, that day has come. I need you, Michael, and I ask for your help.
Of course I wanted to help him. Just like old times. He and I against fools. But
this time there were no fools in front. It was facing something cold and unknown
called death. At the mere mention, people crossed themselves. And sent him ad
patres the poor unfortunates who trusted him. Out of sheer curiosity. To solve
his problems with his father. To satisfy his pride explorer of a new world.
Raoul, "my friend Raoul," coldly murdered people who had harmed him in any
way ... He killed them in the name of science. Everything in me screamed "In
insane!".
He looked at me with the affection of a big brother to his younger brother.
- Do you know this Chinese proverb: "He who asks a question may five minutes to
look foolish, he who does not ask questions remain beast all his life"?
I remained on his land.
- There is a known phrase, Hebrew one: "Thou shalt not kill your neighbor." This
is one of the Ten Commandments. It is found recorded in the Bible.
He interrupted his wanderings to firmly grab my wrists. His hands were warm and
spider sweaty. He plunged his eyes into mine to better convince me.
- He should have added an eleventh commandment: "You shall not die in
ignorance." Five, ten, fifty people may have to spend, I admit. But what a
challenge! If we succeed, we finally know what death and people cease to be
afraid of dying. All these types in tracksuit you saw in our laboratory are
prisoners, you know, and they are all volunteers. I have handpicked. They all
have one thing in common: being sentenced to life imprisonment and had written
to the President to demand the reinstatement of the death penalty rather than
moldy Avie in their jail. I spoke with fifty of these exceeded. I remember those
who seemed sincere in their willingness to give up life as their fate was
repugnant to them. I told them about the project "Paradise." They immediately
inflamed.
70
- Because thou hast deceived, I said, shrugging. These are not scientific. They
are unaware that they have 99.999% chance to let their skin in your little
experiments. They also fear death, even if they provide otherwise. At the last
moment, everyone is afraid!
He grabbed me firmly again. It hurt me but he ignored my efforts to free myself.
- I have not deceived them. Never. They know all the risks. They know that many
will die before a day someone manages to come back after a deliberately caused
NDE. Celuilà be a pioneer. It will have taken the first step in conquering the
world of the dead. Basically, it's like a lottery, many losers to one winner ...
He sat back, took the bottle of whiskey that I had filed with glasses on my
coffee table and poured himself a liquor glassful. With my matches, he revived
one of its fine biddies cigarettes.

36

- Michael, even you and me, we will die one day, and then, just before dying, we
will ask ourselves what we have done with our lives. As much try something
original! Frayons a channel. If we fail, others will continue. The
thanatonautique is still in its infancy.
As stubbornness dismayed me.
- You've set a mission impossible, I sighed.
- Impossible, this is said to Christopher Columbus when he asserted able to hold
a new law.
I had a bitter smile.
- In this case, it was easy. It was enough to tap the base of the egg.
- Yes, but he had discovered the first. Here, I'll submit to you a problem that
you probably will seem as impossible as that of the egg of Columbus in his time.
He went out of his jacket pocket a notebook and pencil.
- Would you know draw a circle and the center point of its axis without lifting
your pen?
To better show my face to get, he drew himself a circle with a dot in the
middle.
- Do the same, but without lifting your pen, he ordered.
- It's impossible and you know it!
- No more than a right to hold a widower. No more than to conquer the continent
of the dead.
71
Examining the round and the point I had a dubious pout.
- You really possess a solution?
- Yes, and I'll prove it to you right away.
This is the moment chosen by my dear brother Conrad to arise without warning in
my apartment. The door was open and he had obviously not bothered to knock.
- Hi, the company! he gave cheerfully.
I did not want to continue this conversation at my idiot brother. I tried to put
a definitive end to this intractable debate.
- Sorry, Raoul, but the case you proposed to me does not interest me. As for
your problem, at least to cheat, there is no way to solve it.
- Man of little faith! if he exclaimed, very sure of himself.
Launching a business card on the table, he added
- Find me on this number if you change your mind.
On this final arrow, he vanished without a goodbye.
- I think I know this individual, my brother noticed.
Much change the subject
- So, Conrad, I said, cheerful and like I was glad to see him, then, Conrad,
what do you become?
It would be endless and about bored me in advance. I knew perfectly well what
was happening to Conrad. He was in the importexport of "all you can stuff in
containers." It was enriched. He was married. He had two children. He had a
superb Korean sports car. He was playing tennis. He frequented the salons where
the cause and he had associated his mistress.
Conrad pleasure to spread the latest episodes of his happy existence. He had
acquired master paintings at a ridiculous price, purchased a house on the coast
of Brittany and I would be welcome in case I want to help the retapisser. His
children excelled SCHOOL. I posted a good smile, but two or three more good news
in this and I could not hold my growing desire to send him my fist in the face.
Nothing is more annoying than the happiness of others. Especially when it is
used gauge aYour own demise ...
Three, four times a week, my mother called me
- Hey, Michael, when are you as you get something good to tell me? It is high
time that you're thinking of making a home. Conrad looks like he is happy, him.
72
But mother was not content also not encourage me to marriage. It was. I had
surprised one day writing a matrimonial ad for a newspaper: "Grand physician,

37

rich, intelligent, beautiful and spiritual, seeking women the same level."
Finally, this was about the spirit of the text. I had bitten one of these
tantrums!
While I obnubilais me the riddle of the circle and its axis, Conrad continued to
expose every detail of his happiness. It detailed each piece of his Breton manor
and explained how he had rolled Aboriginal to get a quarter of the price.
Ah, that superior smile! The more he talked, the more I discerned pity in her
voice. "Poor Michael, he thought, so many years of study to reach this solitary
life, sad and miserable."
It's true that at that time my life was not great.
I was living alone, single, in my little studio in the rue Reaumur. More than
anything, loneliness weighed on me, and I was no longer any satisfaction in my
work. I arrived in the morning at the hospital. I examined the records of future
surgery. I prepared my products, was planting needles, was watching the screens.
Luckily I had never experienced an accident as an anesthesiologist but my
existence of high priest in a white coat was far from meeting all the promises
of my old short pass HOSPITAL St. Louis. The nurses were not naked in their work
clothes. Some were certainly easy but they gave themselves up in the hope of
marrying a doctor in order to finally stop working.
My work had finally brought me disappointment.
I did not enjoy the esteem of my superiors, nor those of my subordinates and my
equals ignored me. I was just a patch, a cog with a specific function. It brings
you a patient, you fall asleep, I operates and the next. No good morning and
good evening no.
Conrad chattered, chattered constantly, and I thought there had to be something
other than my present life and so-called happiness. It surely was an alternative
somewhere.
And how to draw a circle and its axis without lifting the pen? Could not
necessarily impossible.
I was unhappy and Raoul had left, taking with him his folly, passion, adventure,
leaving me to my loneliness and my dislikes.
On the coffee table, the business card shone like a mirage.
A circle and its axis ... Impossible!
73
43 -Philosophy BUDDHIST
"What do you think, O disciples, who is the greatest
The waters of the vast ocean or the tears that you paid while in this long
pilgrimage erriez you rushing you new births in new dead
States that you hated,
Separated from what you loved?
Thus, for many ages, you have suffered the pains, misfortune, pain, and stuffed
the ground cemeteries,
Long enough to be tired of life,
Long enough to wish to escape from it all. "
Buddha Speech
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
44 - YOU WILL ARRIVE
It took several weeks of little exasperation, small humiliations and
immeasurable boredom so I decided to switch the side of Raoul and his madness.
Persistent phone calls from my mother and my brother unannounced visits played
for many in this favor. Add to that a slight disappointment in love (a co-worker
who had refused to go out with me to finally stomato a moron), not even a good
book to comfort me and you will understand that I was ready for Fleury-Merogis.
This was however not the shabby accumulation setbacks that determined my choice,
but a shriveled old lady any awaiting a crucial operation.

38

I was there, numbing sting in hand when an assistant came to tell me that the
surgeon was not ready. I knew what that meant. This idiot was going to indulge,
just to relax, to part of legs in the air with his nurse in the locker room. As
soon as they were finished with their antics, I could sleep my patient that he
takes away his bladder tumor, with two chance she wakes up.
It was so ... no! Five thousand years of civilization to arrive àpatienter until
a surgeon wants to ejaculate much one tries in five minutes to save the life of
a sick!
74
- Why are you laughing? inquired the old lady.
- It's nothing. It's nervous.
- Your laughter reminds me of my husband before his death. I liked to hear him
laugh. It was swept away by a ruptured aneurysm. He was lucky, him. He did not
have time to see décrépir. He died ... healthy.
Her laugh, her, rang like a bell fatal.
- With this operation, I'll finally join.
- What are you talking about! Dr Leveau is an ace.
The grandmother shook her head.
- But it is that I intend to stay there. I have more than enough to live on her
own. I want to find my husband. Up there. In Paradise.
- You believe that there is a heaven?
- Of course. It would be too awful if everything stopped with this life. There
is necessarily an "after" somewhere. I find my André, there or in another life,
I do not care. We loved so much and for so long!
- Do not talk like that. Leveau The doctor will treat you, your little boo-boo.
I protested with even less conviction that I had several times witnessed the
incompetence of this practitioner.
She stared at me with faithful dog eyes magnet.
- And then I would return to live alone with my memories in my apartment too ...
How horrible!
- But life is still ...
- A damn passage, eh? Without love, life is really a valley of tears.
- But there is no love, there is also ...
- There what? The flowers, the birds? What nonsense! I, in my life, there was
Andre and I have lived for him. So this story to my bladder, what luck!
- You do not have kids? I asked.
-. If they expect inheritance in stamping. After the operation, they will call
you surely doctor to see if they can immediately order their new car or if they
will be forced to wait a little.
Our eyes met. Of themselves, the words formed on my lips.
- Do you know how to draw a circle and its central point without lifting his
pen?
7S
She giggled.
- What question! All that is learned in kindergarten.
On a used tissue, she showed me how to proceed. I extasiai me. It was so obvious
that it was natural that I would not have thought of.
The old woman gave me an amused wink. She was the type to understand how I could
attach importance to such trifles.
- It was enough to think about it, she said.
Having finally understood, I thought that Raoul was really a genius. A genius
capable of a circle and its center without lifting the pen could perhaps defy
death ...
Thereupon two strong West Indian orderlies came in pushing a trolley of
instruments monitored by the perky surgeon.
Five hours later, she was gone from life to death. Leveau viciously threw her

39

transparent rubber gloves. He cursed. Blame the old equipment, the patient who
had waited too long, the fault with no luck ...
- Let's go have a beer? me he proposed.
The phone rang. As expected, it was the children of the little old. I hung up in
their faces. My hand already searched my pocket in search of Raoul's business
card.
45 -Manuel HISTORY
It is unclear how thanatonautique started moving. According to some historians,
originally there was a group of friends wanting to try a new experience.
According to other sources, the first Thanatonautes had only purely economic
motivations. They wanted to get rich quick by launching a new fashion.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 "year.
46 - LET'S GO
I was aware that Raoul offered me to become an accomplice of future crimes.
Crimes in the name of science or I too knew what dreams of conquest of the
beyond.
The idea of sending people to death by pure curiosity me
76
always so shocked but at the same time, while I longed toa little spice in my
life.
To decide, I had still use three pieces of two francs. I improved the method
Raoul now using not one, but three small coins. And I had a more nuanced view.
Battery battery battery meant absolutely yes. Pile-tail-head: rather yes. Facehead-tail: rather not. Face face-off: absolutely not.
The pieces flew to go interview the sky. Then they landed one after the other.
Pile-tail-head: rather yes.
I picked up my phone. The same evening, a delighted Raoul spoke to me at length
of the project. In my studio, her hands fluttering above his head like two
pigeons happy.
He was intoxicated words.
- We will be the first! We will conquer this "wonderful continent."
Wonderful continent against the Hippocratic Oath. I tried a last-ditch stand.
Later, if the worst occurred, and I could always convince me that Raoul had
forced my hand.
He used new arguments
- Galileo also was called a fool.
After Columbus, Galileo! Decidedly, this poor Galileo has served as an alibi for
many delirious imaginations. Although convenient, the stroke of Galilee ...
- Okay, Galileo was treated crazy and he was perfectly sane. But for Galileo,
unjustly accused, how real demented?
- The death ... he began.
- The death, I see daily in the hospital. The types are dying and they do not
take all the air Thanatonautes. After a few hours, they start to stink, members
take a rigor mortis. Death, it stinks. It's a bunch of meat which necrosis.
- The body rots, the soul takes off, my friend spoke philosophically.
- You know I've seen a coma and I did not take off.
He took an apologetic air.
- Poor Michael, you never had a chance.
I should remind Raoul I knew very well why he was interested in death. Always
his father and his suicide. He had
77
more need a good psychoanalysis as its "Paradise." But battery-stack-face, I had
already decided.

40

- Well, let's get to the point. You've already told I missed the two first
flights due to bad dosing anesthetic substances. But what did you used to induce
a coma?
His face lit up with a big smile. He clasped me in his arms as before. He
laughed. He knew he had won.
47-CHINESE PHILOSOPHY
"Do you want to learn how to live well? Learn first to die." Confucius.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francia Razorbak.
48-AMANDINE IS SO PRETTY
The eyelids of the pretty nurse drooped over his navy blue eyes but his silence
seemed to me this time a dull congratulations.
I had the impression of knowing for a long time as she looked like Grace Kelly
Hitchcock film, Rear Window. In much more beautiful, of course.
In the shed of Fleury-Merogis, everyone seemed happy to see me. The presence of
a doctor, additional anesthetist should reassure both the crew and the
candidates to suicide.
Raoul made the introductions. The nurse answered the name of Amandine, future
Thanatonautes were Clement, Marcellin and Hughes.
- Initially, we had five Thanatonautes reminded me our captain. Two are dead,
victims of a medication error. We do not improvise anesthetist. So welcome
aboard!
The three prisoners in tracksuits greeted me by gauging me with suspicion.
Raoul pulled me to the laboratory bench and vials.
- You will learn the same time as us. All together, we enter uncharted
territory. We have no predecessors. We are like those first men who once laid
their
78
feet in America or Australia. For us to discover our "New Australia" and to
plant our flag!
The Razorbak teacher had regained its seriousness. In his eyes, the passion for
work well done replaced the madness.
- Let's show the doctor Pinson how we do a coma, he said.
Without hesitation, Marcellin, the smallest volunteers, sat on the dilapidated
dental chair. The nurse bustled him to place electrodes on the chest and
forehead, plus all kinds of heat detectors, humidity, pulse rate. All these were
connected son Ades screens that displayed green lines.
I examined the scene.
- Remove me all this mess!
This was it. I was a party to their fantasies. I studied the contents of the
bench, shelves above, deciphered labels, reflecting the best mixture may cause a
coma.
Saline to dilate veins, thiopental to anesthetize and potassium chloride to slow
the cardiac movements ...
Some US states formerly preferred this method of cyanide or the electric chair
to eliminate their Amort convicted. For my part, I hoped that further diluting
potassium chloride, heart beats without ceasing to decrease, allowing a slow
flow to coma, possibly controlled by the brain.
And by me ...
With the help of Raoul and the other three candidates Thanatonautes, I built a
pretty clever device: a small plastic bracket twenty centimeters high when I
hung saline in its large bottle and thiopental in a smaller, Finally potassium
chloride. I became an electrical timer system to pipe valves so that each
substance is delivered at the time considered by me as the most propitious.
Thiopental is powered twenty-five seconds after injection of the saline solution

41

and potassium chloride, three minutes later. All would be administered via a
single pipe, previous terminal, resulting in a single hollow needle.
I baptized boost the entire chemical device. The thanatonaute itself trigger it
by pressing a switch
79
Electric Pear in torme who would operate the timer. Without realizing it, I had
to invent the first "death machine" to formally possess the land of the dead. I
believe she is now in the Smithsonian Institute in Washington.
My address and assurance impressed the audience. Raoul was right. For each
technical problem, its technical solution. I was especially happy with my
switch. I should not button to operate. So no direct responsibility. I do not
want to be an executioner.
The person would decide for itself the moment of his departure and, if
unsuccessful, even one more suicide.
I prayed Amandine push the needle into the vein of Marcellin arm. From a steady
hand, she pinched the inside of the elbow thanatonaute, broke the big needle and
made no beading a tiny drop of blood. The man did not even winced.
Then I put the bulb of the power switch in the clammy hand of Marcellin then
explained to him
- When you press this button, it will trigger the electric pump.
For a moment I almost said "this will trigger your death."
Marcellin flashed a knowing look, as if I was talking to him for a mechanical
car engine.
- All is well? asked Raoul.
- In hair. I completely trust the doctor.
I tried not to let me win by the frenzy that made Raoul so nervous.
- And after? he asked.
He stared at me from the naive child who clings at all costs àl'existence of
Santa Claus, the sandman and the ability to hit the trifecta in order.
I empêtrai me.
- Well, uh ...
- Do not worry, Doc. After, I improvise.
He gave me a wink of aeil accomplice.
Brave type. He even wanted to avoid me guilt. He knew he was going to meet
insurmountable and he wanted to relieve me of all the glitches that might occur.
A moment I wanted to say "go away quickly, while there is still time." But
Raoul, seeing my embarrassment, with a cut ...
- Congratulations! Bravo, Marcellin, well spoken!
80
Everyone applauds, including me.
We applauded what? I do not know ... Maybe my device "boost to the beyond",
perhaps the courage of Marcellin, perhaps the beauty of Amandine that had
nothing to do here. That's right, a doll like that should be a model.
"Accomplice to murder" is really not a profession of the future.
- We will now proceed with the launch of a soul ..., Raoul declaimed.
And he put out his cigarette.
Marcellin was grinning like a mountaineer Sunday tackling Everest with new
shoes. He made a little hello that had nothing to do with the salvation of a
convict. All of us replied, smiling and encouraging.
- Come on, bon voyage!
Amandine covered our tourist a cooling blanket while I was making the final
adjustments to the computers.
- Ready?
- Ready!
Amandine marched video camera that would film the scene. Marcellin signed.
Closing his eyes, he began the slow count
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one ... Liftoff!
Then he pressed hard the switch.

42

49 -MYTHOLOGIE MAYAN
At the Mayas, death meant the start to Hell, hell named Mitnal. There the demons
tortured soul by cold, hunger, thirst and poverty.
The Mayans had established nine lords of the night, probably corresponding to
the nine underground stays Aztecs.
The soul of the dead had to cross five rivers of blood, dust and thorns. At a
crossroads, she then faced the test of houses: the amber house, the house
knives, home refrigeration, home of jaguars and the house of vampires.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
50-MARCELLIN HUMAN GUINEA PIG,
AMANDINE DIVINE WOMAN
Our eyes stared intensely monitors. The heart of Marcellin might beat low but
still beating. His pulse had dropped well below that of a person in a deep
sleep. Her temperature had dropped by almost four degrees.
- He's gone how long? asked an inmate.
Amanda looked at his watch. I knew, myself, that there was more than half an
hour that Marcellin had made the plunge. For twenty minutes he was in a deep
coma.
His face was that of a man sleeping.
- Provided it succeeds, provided he succeeds! Hugues chanted and Clement, the
other two Thanatonautes future.
I wanted to feel Marcellin better realize the state of his organism but Raoul
kept me
- Do not touch him again. Do not wake up too soon.
- But how will we know if it has succeeded?
- If he opens his eyes, he will have succeeded, says soberly project leader
"Paradise".
Every ten seconds, the ping of the electrocardiogram sounded like a sonar
nuclear submarine en route to unfathomable depths. The body of Marcellin was
still sprawled on the dentist's chair. But where could well be his soul?
51- AND A
For over an hour, I struggled to practice CPR. As soon as the ping of the
electrocardiogram had stopped, it had been the general panic.
Amandine rubbed his arms and legs Marcellin, while Raoul was pulling him an
oxygen mask. Together we counted "one, two, three," and I pressed rib cage, both
hands on the core region. Then Raoul breathed air into the nostrils to revive
the respiratory pump.
The application of electric shocks had no other result than to make him open
suddenly eyes and mouth. Empty eyes and a silent mouth.
82
A force us escrimer on the inert body of Marcellin, we were swimming.
I repressed in my head the question "what am I doing here?". But the more I
looked at what I needed proper characterization of corpse interrogation became
more obsessive. "What am I doing here?"
Yes, what was I doing here?
I wanted to be somewhere else, doing something else. They have never
participated in this operation.
It was too late to bring Marcellin to life. It was too late and we all knew, but
we refuse to admit it. Especially me. Regarding me, it was my first "murder" and
I can swear to you that it stirs the guts to hear a guy living say "hello" and
contemplate a little later as stiff as a tree dry!
Raoul pulled away.
- This has gone too far, he muttered angrily. He's gone too far and he has not

43

been able to return.
Amandine had exhausted rub Marcellin. Sweat beaded on his smooth forehead, ran
along her cheeks dotted with freckles, finally slipped into her bodice too
modest. The moment was dramatic and yet I knew perhaps the most erotic moment of
my life. What a sight that this beautiful young woman struggling against death,
his army of only soft hands! Eros Thanatos always near! Then I realized where I
had got the impression of knowing for a long time. It not only looked like Grace
Kelly but also the nurse present when I woke up after the car accident of my
childhood. Even Angel great even skin texture, even apricot fragrance.
A guy had just died, and I ogled a nurse. I écoeurais me.
- What shall we do with the body? I cried.
Raoul did not answer right away. He first lingered àcontempler Marcellin in an
improbable hope.
Then, with detachment, he explained
- President covers us. Each prison is experiencing a suicide rate of 4%.
Marcellin be part of the lot, that's all.
- This is the criminal madness! I vociférai. How could I have let myself embark
on this adventure claim? You have deceived me, Raoul, you cheated me, you
betrayed our friendship to melt in your dementia. You all disgust me as much as
you are. One type is
83
dead because of your unconsciousness. You have deceived me and hast deceived.
Raoul rose, dignified, and suddenly he grabbed me by the collar. His gaze was
throwing flames, he sputtered my face.
- No I do not
have not deceived you. But the issue is so colossal that it is mandatory that we
know failure before success. Rome was the point built in a day. We are no longer
children, Michael. This is not a game. We have to pay full price. Everything has
a price, otherwise it would be too easy. If it was easy, others would already be
reached before us. That's because it's hard that we will merit to succeed.
I defended myself feebly.
- If we succeed one day. And it seems to me
more and more
unlikely.
Raoul released me. He considered Marcellin whose mouth was still wide open. This
gaping mouth was unbearable to have, so he placed a clamp screw between
Marcellin jaws, shook and screwed to force them to move closer to closure, and
then being able to close this accusatory mouth, he turned to the others .
- Maybe you also think like Michael. If you want to give up, there is still
time.
Raoul faced each awaiting a reaction. We watched the corpse of Marcellin and it
impressed us because, due to the jaw clamp his mouth now resembled a beak, lost
in his hollow cheeks.
- I give up! exclaimed Clement. I thought that with the doctor, everything would
be safer but he too is not strong enough to fight against death. If you have to
kill ten thousand poor guys before succeeding, I prefer not to be among them.
Needless to remember our agreement. I promise never to speak àquiconque your
project "Paradise". It makes me too scared.
- And you, Hugh? Raoul asked in an even voice.
- I remain proudly launched the volunteer.
- If you want to be our next thanatonaute?
- Yes. I'd rather die than go back to my cell.
Chin, he indicated the body of Marcellin.
- He at least it is no longer locked in a shabby cell!
- Very well, said Raoul. And you, Amandine?
- I remain, she announced without showing any emotion.
I could not believe my ears.

44

84
- But you're all crazy, my word! Clement is right. It could kill ten thousand
people before getting any results. In any case, do not rely on me more.
I took off my white coat and threw it on the bench, breaking several vials
immediately left exhale odor of ether.
Then I went on slamming the door loudly.
52-NOTE ADMINISTRATIVE
From: Benoît Mercassier
To: President Lucinder
In accordance with your instructions, experiments have begun. The research team
consists of Professor Raoul Razorbak biologist specializing in hibernation
rodents, and Dr. Michael Pinson, anesthetist, nurse assisted by Amandine Ballus.
Five inmates volunteered guinea pigs. The "Paradise" project is launched.
53 - STATE OF SOUL
I returned to my apartment quite shaken. Alone at home, I screamed as coyotes
howl full moon night, but failed so far to deliver me from the stress caused by
the death of Marcellin. What to do? Continue was wrong, give the next
thanatonaute was wrong too. Then I screamed. Neighbors slapped with brushes
against my walls. They obtained the desired result. I was silent but not calmed
down so far.
I was torn. I was unable to waive goodbye Amandine. I did not want to send
people still in a coma. Raoul's ideas fascinated me. I refused to be other
corpses on my conscience. I did not want to live in an eternal solitude. Return
to the routine of my work at the hospital repelled me. Raoul was right at least
on one point: his project might be terrible, but what a grand adventure!
He was crazy and obsessed with his father's suicide. But Amanda, what could push
such a lovely creature
85
embark into this mess? Perhaps she was also convicted of being a pioneer of a
new world. Raoul was so patter.
I swallowed small white glass of port on little white port wine to be drunk. I
tried to fall asleep while reading a novel. Once again, I was alone in my bed,
and into the bargain, with a death on his conscience. My sheets were also frozen
a cooling blanket.
Taking my little cream the next morning in the bistro on the corner, I thought
it was perhaps an excess of potassium chloride, which caused the death of
Marcellin. The product was highly toxic, it was necessary to reduce the dose.
Unless this is a problem of anesthetic.
Normally, we use three kinds of anesthetic. Narcotics, opioids and muscle
relaxants. I preferred the narcotic habit. But for a "good death", it was better
a curare.
Hum. No. I would continue with a narcotic.
Gradually, I was more obsessed by technical problems. My professional reflexes
are triggered automatically. My chemistry class came back to me.
Hum. I might have had to use Propofol, I told myself. This is a new drug with a
better alarm clock. Normally, the clock is carried out in five minutes and is
very clear ... No, surely propofol poorly interact with the chloride. So much
keep thiopental. But how much? Usually it takes five milligrams per kilo. Five
milligrams minimum dose, maximum dose ten milligrams. I gave 850 milligrams to
Marcellin who weighed 85 kilos. It would perhaps lower the dose ...
At 14 pm, I called Raoul. At 16 pm, we were all together again in our
thanatodrome Fleury-Merogis. As usual, the detainees had copiously insulted us
in passing. Between them, no need to make them believe that Marcellin had

45

voluntarily committed suicide. The institutional passed us without greeting us
even avoiding looking at us.
However, Hughes greeted us kindly.
- Do not worry, doctor, we will get there!
It was not for me as I was concerned, it was rather to
I diminish, my doses. 600 milligrams for Hugues who weighed 80 kilos. That
should be enough.
86
Raoul wrote down any of my manipulations. I guess he wanted to be able to
reproduce them in case I decide for good to abandon.
Amandine handed a glass of fresh water to Hugh.
- The glass of the condemned? he quipped.
- No, she replied seriously.
The thanatonaute sat down in the dentist's chair. They proceeded with the
formalities: installation of the sensors, taking pulse, setting temperature,
cooling blanket.
- Ready?
- Ready.
- Ready! adds Amandine by connecting the camera.
Hugh muttered a prayer. Then he made a sign of the cross and spoke at full speed
as if to rid
- Six, four, five, three, two, one, take off!
He grimaced as if he swallowed a bitter pill and pressed the switch.
54 - Japanese MI'THOLOGIE
Japanese Yomi call the land of the dead. It is said that the god Izanagi left
one day in the land of Yomi to search there Izanami, his sweat, who was also his
wife. When he found her, he asked her to return to the world of the living. "Oh,
my husband, why have you come so late? Replied the goddess. I tasted the dishes
baked gods of Yomi and I now belong to them. Nevertheless, I will try to
convince them to release me. Pray for this time and do not look at me. "
But Izanagi wanted to see his sweat-wife. Violating his order, he took his comb,
used it as a tool to break a tooth and tooth turned this torch that kindled.
Izanami was then discern. He discovered a corpse eaten by worms, whose eight
thunder gods had taken possession. Frightened, he fled shouting fallen
accidentally in a place of horror and rot. Furious that déguerpisse without
waiting, Izanami declared humiliated. She sent the hideous harpies Yomi in
pursuit of Izanagi, but he managed to escape.
Izanami launched itself in pursuit. Izanagi's trapped in a cave. By the time the
two deities were the rule
87
sentence of divorce, Izanami said: "Every day I strangle thousand people of your
country make you pay for your crime - And I, every day I will be born in 1500
people." Izanagi replied without disconcerting.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
55 - AND TEN
Hugues never returned. He remained midway between the mainland of the dead and
the living. He did not die but went out of the coma prostrate, staring, almost
flat EEG and EKG very spaced. He became a vegetable. His heart and his brain
worked, certainly, but he was not able to move or speak.
I did admit to the escort service for the dying of my hospital. A special
chamber is aménagea him. Several years later, Hughes was transported with all
precautions at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, the death section

46

Museum. Everyone could see what happened to those who remained stuck between two
worlds.
When I think back to that second take-off attempt, I think it might well have
succeeded. The experience was valuable in any case because it allowed me to dose
thiopental and potassium chloride within a reasonable range.
Anyway, we had exhausted our five guinea pigs. Three dead, one resigned, a
vegetable. Nice balance!
Raoul immediately began lobbying the Minister Mercassier so that it provides us
new subjects. The Minister obtained a second ahead of President Lucinder. Then
began a ruthless selection. We wanted lifers, asset ready to escape the prison.
They could experience cravings for suicide, but not much. We needed sane men or
drug addicts or alcoholics.
And above all, it was essential that they are in good health to support
potassium chloride. One died although in good health, it was obvious.
By sheer coincidence, the bulk Martinez, the leader of the gang of thugs who
assaulted us at once out of high school, introduced himself to us.
88
He did not recognize us not. I thought of the words of Lao Tzu
"If someone has offended you, not trying to get revenge. Sit on the edge of the
river and soon you will see pass his corpse."
Martinez had resulted in prison after a dark bank robbery story. As it became
almost obese, he does not run away as fast as his accomplices. He was good at
boxing but nobody in the race. The policeman who caught him as he panted, out of
breath, had to be better than him in the gym. Alas, two people were killed
during this lamentable news item. Jurors recognized no extenuating
circumstances. Life for Martinez.
He brilliantly passed the Thanatonautes selection tests. He even showed very
interested to participate in an experiment that could bring him fame. He
believed in his lucky star that would allow it to survive to our manipulations,
if they are dangerous.
- You know, gentlemen doctors, he bellowed, Martinez, there is nothing that
frightens him.
I remembered that indeed, when he rushed at us with his acolytes five against
two, he seemed not fear my little fists.
Raoul said experience no grudge against Martinez and he would make a good test
subject. Personally, I preferred to cross it off the list of candidates. I
remembered his scraped enough not to fear getting lost with him in my delicate
assays. Martinez, I reserved it a dog my dog. Unable to keep the cold mind, I
preferred to exclude it.
The gangster flunked bellowed that we accept as manically, which denied him any
chance to become rich and famous. He insulted us.
Fortunately he had not yet recognized us! In his fury, he would have been able
to complain about favoritism and arbitrary treatment.
Martinez thus not figured among our next five guinea pigs. Or rather, I should
say, our next five died. The death had ceased to move me. My sensitivity was
blunt. I felt like rocket ship into space. If these exploded on takeoff, for us
to make the necessary adjustments for the next firing is successful.
Third series of guinea pigs. Among them, named Mark.
89
Sensors, taking pulse, temperature measurement, cooling blanket. Raoul launched
- Ready?
We replied in chaeur.
- Ready!
- Ready!
Provided that our man does not die of fear. He was sweating and shivering at
once. He kept making signs of the cross.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one ... and a half and a quarter
die ... a ... ... off? Well, ge ... took off! he stammered, not really

47

convinced.
And he took it twice to press the switch on which his finger had slipped sweaty.
56-Mesopotamian Mythology
In Mesopotamian mythology, the land of the dead is called the "land of no
return". Singing
Those who enter not receive light. Dust and earth are their only food. They are
dressed in the manner of birds. Dust covers everything, doors and locks.
One day, the beautiful Ishtar, goddess of love, descended into Hell. The queen
Ereshkigal ordered the guardian of the process according to the ancient customs.
Every time the goddess would cross one of the seven gates of Hell, she would
successively stripped first of her dress and her crown, and her earrings, her
jewels, her breastplate, his belts, bracelets, anklets her and finally her
underwear. Ishtar came to pass naked before Ereshkigal who sentenced him to
sixty torture on different parts of his body.
Yet it was the humans who suffered the consequences of this captivity because
without Ishtar, the land had lost its fertility. Singing
Since Ishtar descended to the land of no return,
The only more fertile bull cow, man engages more with the woman.
90
Men dispatched a eunuch to Ereshkigal. When he asked her for permission to drink
in addition that contains the water of life, she cursed. Singing
Your food will be the sewers of the city, You will remain in the shade of walls
you dwell on the doorsteps And drunkards and thirst strike your cheek.
It seems that the eunuch was sent to Hell to be exchanged against Ishtar. In
this place, infertility could be exchanged against fertility. Indeed, some time
later, Ereshkigal ordered Ishtar is sprayed with water of life, then escorted to
the gates of Hell. Gradually, as she crossed the seven gates in the opposite
direction, all his possessions were returned. Thus, on Earth, things resumed
their normal course.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
57 - MANIP ERROR
Frictions. Warming. Electric shocks.
Mark opened his eyes and we écarquillâmes ours.
Do we'd finally managed?
Our hero took us from our stupor, rising suddenly, flapping, breaking all around
and yelling.
- I saw them! They are there! They are everywhere. Impossible to escape them,
they are everywhere!
- Who? But who then? Raoul asked his most firmly.
- Devils! There are devils everywhere and they want to push me into a large pot
and put me to cook. I do not wanna die. I never want to see them again. They are
too horrible.
He fixed me with his opaque eyes and screamed
- You too, you're a devil. The devils are everywhere.
He gave me a vial face. He continued Amandine with syringes and planted him in
the buttocks. It balafra my forehead with a stroke of the knife when I tried to
interject. I still retains the scar.
91

48

This behavior began somewhat our enthusiasm. After the vegetable, a madman! Even
Raoul had been impressed by Marc's violence. At the same time, we wondered. And
if we succeeded? If Mark really brought us a testimony to the afterlife? It was
not his fault if it did not reflect the horror.
We do not utterly destroyed unless the video and Marc was shut up in a lunatic
asylum. Yet it was our first guinea pig àexpérimenter an NDE. It perhaps was not
brought back fond memories of bright corridors but it was nonetheless returned
the body, if not the spirit, unscathed.
That night, I raccompagnai Amandine home in my car. The nurse kept crossing and
uncrossing her pretty legs. The wound in the buttocks was benign. I had needed
twenty-five stitches.
The black dress Amandine - she was always dressed in black -émettait very
sensual screeching.
She had not wanted to take the RER after this eventful session and, moreover,
neither she nor I wanted after that to spend the evening alone.
While driving, I whispered
- Maybe we should stop there?
Amandine and its perpetual silence. I always told myself
"She must think of the wonderful things she's so beautiful and so she said
nothing." But today I was tired of her silence. She was not a decorative object.
She had seen those people like me who were dying or going crazy for a more
random experience.
I insisted
- So many unnecessary deaths! And what poor results ... What do you think? I've
never heard her utter a single sentence of more than three words since we know.
We work together. We need to talk. We need you to help me stop Raoul. This case
has gone on long enough. Without you, I'll never convince him.
She finally agreed to look at me. She stared at me long, intensely. His mouth
opened. She was finally talk.
- On the contrary.
- What, in contaire?
- On the contrary we have a duty to continue. Precisely for all these deaths
were not in vain. Our Thanatonautes
92
all knew what they were risking. They all knew that their death would give the
next a little more likely to succeed.
- It's like a poker game where we would build ever more to recoup losses! I
exclaimed. Thus one runs to his ruin. Fifteen victims! Not a research project, a
shooting gallery, yes!
- We are pioneers, she replied icily.
- I know a good proverb on this: "It is easy to recognize the true pioneer He is
the one that lies in the middle of the plains of the Wild West with an arrow in
the back.."
She got mad even more
- You think all those dead do not undermine me, too? All our Thanatonautes were
wonderful people, with so much courage ...
Her voice broke. But it was the first time she fielded two sentences as a
result. As much benefit from the windfall. I provoquai
- It was not courage, it was a suicidal behavior.
- Suicidal behavior! And Columbus, he was not completely suicidal to go so far
on a nut shell? And Yuri Gagarin, with its sheet metal box in his rocket, it was
not suicidal? Without suicidal, the world would not advance ...
Ah! Galileo, Columbus, and now Gagarin, earlier were not lacking to justify
their slaughter!
Amandine was now launched. She persisted in vouvoyer me.
- I think you do not understand, doctor Pinson. Can not find it strange that so
easily find volunteers? The detainees are all aware of our troubles, so why do
they come? I'll tell you, me, because, in our thanatodrome, this waste of
society suddenly have the feeling of turning into heroes!

49

- In that case, why others do they spit on achaque pass?
- Paradox. They blame us for the death of their friends, yet they too are ready
to die. And one day, one of them will succeed, I am convinced.
While Amandine fascinated me. His coldness, his silence, his mystery and his
fervor now ...
Black The blonde was like a burning presence in my car that my senses completely
panicked. Maybe that by attending death, my life instincts were exacerbated! For
93
When I was alone with Amanda, and a moving and emotional Amandine. I tried it
all out. The opportunity was unique. My hand left the gear lever and used a bump
and landed on his knee. Her skin was silky and exuded an incredible softness.
She pushed my palm as an unhealthy object.
- Sorry, Michael, but really you're not my type of man.
And what was his kind of man?
58-STILL NOTHING
On Thursday 25 August, the Minister of Research we went incognito visit to our
thanatodrome of Fleury-Merogis. Benedict Mercassier wanted to attend in person
to a "take-off". He had the worried face of a man who wonders if he is not
committing the folly of the century. In this case, it was still time to save the
day before an inevitable questioning in the House?
He shook my hand and congratulated me without real conviction, and especially
encouraged Thanatonautes five of the new team. He asked quietly Raoul on the
number of failures and jumped when it slipped the digit to the ear.
He then came back to me and led me away in a corner of the room
- Maybe your boosters are too toxic?
- No. Me too, I thought it first. But the problem is not ...
- Where is he?
- Well, after so many experiences, I now have the impression that once in a
coma, they are placed in front of, you know, before a ... choice. Leave or
return. And they all prefer to leave.
Mercassier frowned.
- In this case, you can not recover strength, with more powerful electric
shocks, for example? You know, they did not take gloves to bring back President
Lucinder here below. They planted him squarely in the heart of the electrodes!
I'm thinking. We discussed among scientists that are doing mutual esteem. I
weighed my words
- It is not so simple. One would have to determine the exact moment they are
"fairly parties" but not "too left". This is
94
also a timing problem. These guys got lucky with Lucinder, they had just bring
the split second when everything was still possible. Surely a coincidence.
The Minister sought to show smart in a field where, basically, he did not know
much.
- Try nevertheless to increase the voltage, decrease the amount of narcotic, to
lower the dose of potassium chloride. To wake them earlier, perhaps.
We had already tried everything, but I nodded as if he had finally revealed to
me the recipe. Yet I do not want to deceive him, as I added
- They should voluntarily choose to come back when they still have the
opportunity. I've been thinking, you know. We know nothing of what drives them
to continue on the path of death. What is offered them up there? If we knew the
carrot, it can propose more attractive!
- Your Thanatonautes remind me of the thirteenth century these sailors who
preferred to stay on the paradise islands of the Pacific, with beautiful women
and fragrant fruit, rather than painfully regain the eur native Europe!
It was true that the situation had much in common with the Mutiny on the Bounty

50

for example. Our Thanatonautes were convicts like sailors of the time and just
as eager as they to escape to new countries.
- How to remember the dead? Mercassier questioned. Qu'estce that causes people
to fight, the patients wish them healing?
- The taste of happiness, I sighed.
- Yes, but what makes you happy? How to influence your people when they are
faced with the dilemma "to leave or return"? The motivations are so different!
I had already found, in the hospital, that the human will to a large extent
intervened in cases of spontaneous healing. Some simply refused to die and they
managed to stay alive. In a study of the Chinese community in Los Angeles, I had
read that the mortality rate fell to virtually zero the day of their New Year
party. Old men and dying were programming is to stay alive and still enjoy that
day . The next day, the number of deaths was again normal.
The capacities of the human mind are endless. Myself, I
95
was amused me develop a bit the possibilities of my brain by programming it so
that it opens my eyes to eight hours without using an alarm clock. It worked
every time. I also knew I had a lot of information stored in the meanders of my
brain and that I had only to open the drawers in my skull for disposal. There
would certainly be exciting research àeffectuer Autoprogramming on its own
nervous system.
So why not come back from coma by his own will?
The thanatonaute of day, in any case, opted not to return. Frightened by his
twitches at his death, his four companions abandoned in unison. We decided to no
longer rely only on the effects of group emulation. Now our pioneers peeling off
one by one and in our presence. But perhaps it was already too late. Even
FleuryMérogis, we became more and more difficult to recruit volunteers.
59 -MYTHOLOGIE TIBETAN
According to the Tibetans, the Buddhist pantheon is populated by nine groups of
demons
1. God-sbyin: Goalkeepers temples. Originally the great epidemics.
2. bDud: Demons of the higher realms. They can take the form of fish, birds,
herbs or stones. Their leader is housed in a black top nine floors castle.
3. Les Srin: Ogres géants.
4. Klu: Gods of the Underworld in snake form.
5. btsan: Gods living in heaven, forests, mountains and glaciers.
6. Lhasa: celestial deities white. Caring and supposedly reside on the shoulders
of everyone
7. DMU: Bad demons.
8. Dré: Messengers of death, often held responsible for deadly diseases.
Everything that happens to bad men is caused by Dré.
9. Gan-Dre: evil deities Group.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
96
60 -FÉLIX KERBOZ
Strictly speaking, Felix Kerboz was not someone we would like to have as a
neighbor. But you could give him the benefit of some mitigating circumstances.
First, it was not a wanted child. When the Consumer magazine We test for you
demonstrated that the brand of condoms used by his father was only 96% reliable,
Felix would have suspected it would be part of the 4% failures . His father
either. The fact that he was gone for thirty-five years buy cigarettes proves
how this betrayal had aback.
From the outset, Suzette, mother, tried to have an abortion but scarcely fetus,
Felix was already clinging to life as a moth on the hairs of a dog. Repeated

51

efforts makers angels had only result in damage to the unborn baby's face.
Twice thereafter, his mother tried to drown him. Under the pretext of rinse
shampoo her, she pushed his head under water in the bathtub. She had
miscalculated his move and had gone up too soon. Later, she pushed into the
river the toddler who could barely on his feet. But Felix already had the gift
to get worse situations. He dodged little propeller of the barge, which had
caused him a big scar on the cheek, and he managed to regain the bank with the
help of the umbrella that her mother held out awkwardly defeating it on its
head.
His youth, Felix Kerboz wondered why everyone wanted him so much. Because it was
ugly? Because we envied him his wonderful mother?
He gritted his teeth long but when Suzette died he broke. He found that he had
lost the one person he loved on this planet. Now he had hatred.
It first manifested by the attack in order tires of a car he was innocent Larda
stabbing. Not enough to appease! It acoquina with a band of thugs and began to
extort money from the rich kids who live moms, lucky you! He killed three who
were reluctant to pay and became the executor of dirty work of his band. But
when, at eighteen, his friends began to show some interest in the opposite sex,
Felix refused to participate in the rape. What excited him was to land at
bourgeois and plant them in its Surin
97
ribs. It was his way of avenging his beloved mother who had always worked so
hard to raise.
When, at twenty-five, he appeared before an Assize Court, it fails to convince
jurors of indescribable pleasure there àenfoncer has a good long knife and
pointed in the soft underbelly of his neighbor. His passion for the pretty blows
to the stabbing was not communicable. According to the indictment of the
Advocate General, he was sentenced to two hundred eighty-four years in prison,
reduced to two hundred and fifty to six years for good behavior. Felix's lawyer
explained that this was tantamount to a life sentence, "unless the medical
advances will extend the length of human life beyond the current average of
ninety years."
Working from morning to night to make boar bristle brushes is not enough
happiness of the detainee. He had vowed to legally get out of prison. Already,
his good behavior earned him the carry two hundred and fifty-six. How to further
accelerate the process?
The institutional head does not lack ideas. Nowadays, everything was for sale.
That was the modern society. His releasable years Kerboz had only the "buy".
- But with what money? worried unhappy.
- Who speaks of money, here? Having a good healthy body, for a big guy like you,
it's already a tremendous capital!
Then began a terrible accounting.
To earn
years, Felix was testing not yet approved pharmaceuticals, which was not known
side effects.
Since, under the pressure of animal lovers, the animal experiments had been
banned, manufacturers had no recourse other than the prisoners.
He thus obtained three years of remission to test a heart defibrillator that
gave him sleepless arrhythmia and left. Excessive fluoride toothpaste
deteriorated his liver (five years of remission). Soaps detergents too carried
away her skin fragments in the joints (three years of remission). An overactive
aspirin caused an ulcer (two years of remission). A particularly corrosive hair
lotion left the balding (four years of remission).
98
Felix Kerboz kept morale and sometimes surprised to find that some products were
in fact perfectly harmless!
When mutinies, he did punch alongside guards (two years of remission). He

52

denounced drug traffickers that were rampant within the prison (three years of
remission at the expense of resentment many inmates lacking).
- What you always have to fayoter like that, Felix?
- Do not bother. I'm neither fayot or barge, guys. I have ambitions me. I want
out of here head high.
- You speak! Continue with all those chemicals and crap you go out feet first.
Every Saturday, he gave his blood (a remission by week quarter liter). On
Thursday, he smoked ten cigarettes without filter packets for the purpose of a
study by the Ministry of Health about the dangers of tobacco (one day of
remission by inhaled package). On Monday and Tuesday, he underwent sensory
deprivation tests. He spent all day in a white room soundproofed, without moving
and without eating. In the evening, the men in white coats were checking how the
test item had concussed.
Misery after misery, Felix was succeeded in reducing his sentence to a term of
one hundred forty-eight. There was only one valid kidney. An anti-inflammatory
to particularly perverse effects made him deaf in one ear. He blinked his eyes
ever so because of soft contact lenses and if adhesive once deposited they had
proved impossible to remove. Still, he was convinced that one day he would come
out.
When the manager told him about the "Paradise" project and eighty years of
remission it entailed, he did not think for a moment to call for more
information. Never had offered him beautiful gifts.
Certainly a prison rumor that hundreds of detainees have left their skin in the
room in the cellars where they attended the experience. Felix did not care.
After all he had swallowed without breaking, he trusted his luck. The others had
bad luck, that's all! After all, no free and eighty years of remission, one had
to ask you a solid effort.
He settled voluntarily in the chair. He reached to his chest electrodes. He
pressed against her ice blanket.
- Ready?
99
- Well, I'm at your service, Kerboz replied.
- Ready.
- Ready!
No prayer. No sign of the cross. No fingers crossed. Felix merely well stall the
quid he always kept in his right cheek. Anyway, he did not understand what
scientific deployment, and he did not care completely, only focused on the
ensuing huge severance bonus. Eighty years of remission!
As had commanded him, he counted slowly.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one ... off.
Then he pressed the switch innocently.
61-INDIAN MYTHOLOGY CHIPPEWA
The Chippewa Indians living in Wisconsin near Lake Superior, believe that after
death life continues exactly as before, with no end and no progression in one
direction or another. It's always the same film that repeats without any goal,
no morality, no sense.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
Fiche 62 POLICE
Message to the relevant departments
Raoul Razorbak helped a team of scientists is currently engaged in experiments
on death. Over a hundred people have already fallen victim. Should we react
quickly?
Response services concerned
No. Not yet.

53

63 NEW ATTEMPT
Raoul, Amandine and I had made the usual array of post-comatic awakening. We
really no longer believed. Only Raoul carefully fixed the body became subject by
repeating like a prayer "Awake, I beg you, wake up."
100
He moved!
We began the manipulations réanimatoires vaguely scanning the electrocardiogram
and electroencephalogram.
- Wake up, wake up! Raoul intoned.
Mechanically, I was doing all the usual gestures.
It was a great cry to get me out of my torpor.
- He moved a finger! Raoul yelled. Step back, step back, all of you!
I did not want to delude myself but I recoiled.
Suddenly electrocardiogram squeaked. A little shy table, first. Then ping, ping.
Finally ping pi ng pi ng resolved. The finger rebougea. Then all fingers.
On the chair, after the hand was the arm and shoulder which moved. Provided we
have not yet dealing with a lunatic. In anticipation of a new misadventure of
this kind, I wore constantly in my pocket a small rubber baton.
The cilia vibrated. Eyes opened. The mouth twisted into a grimace that turned
into a smile. Ping, ping, ping, brain and heart had recovered their normal pace.
Our guinea pig seemed neither vegetable nor denies.
And he was unharmed. The thanatonaute thanatodrome had regained the healthy and
sound!
- Yaaaaaaaaahouuuuuuuuuhhhhhhh! It was re-u-ssi! Raoul roared.
The shed echoed with laughter. Amandine, Raoul and I hugged frenzy.
Naturally, the first Raoul is recovering
- So how was it? he asked, leaning toward Felix.
We eagerly watched for the first word that would arise from our extraordinary
traveler. Whatever the word, it probably would enter the history books, that the
first man who managed a return to the land of the dead.
Suddenly, the silence reigned in the room. We had so much waiting for this
moment. Until then it had always failed, and it was looking like this madman
pithécanthrope who held the answers the world always dreamed.
He opened his mouth. He was about to speak. No, he closed his lips. Then his
mouth opened again for a second transmission attempt. He blinked. Hoarsely
uttered painfully
- Ah ... damn.
We fixions surprise. He rubbed his forehead.
- Wow, fuck the trick!
Then he looked at us, as if he was surprised that he be given so much attention.
- So have 'em, my eighty years of remission?
We would have shaken our patient to congratulate him but we understood that it
was necessary to give her time to compose herself. Raoul insisted anyway
- How was it?
The man rubbed his wrists, blinked.
- Ben, how you say? I'm out of my barbaque. At first, it gave me the chips. I
was like a little zosieau. Fuck! I flew out of my body ... I climbed up there
with all costs stiffs day. There are some who had these nerds! Stolen like that
for a while, and then we hit a large ring of light. It looked like the hoops of
fire in which there blew the Tigers as the Pinder circus on TV.
He caught his breath. We listened eagerly every word that came from his mouth.
Nice to so much attention, he continued
- It was unbelievable. In the middle, there was like a flashlight. A circle with
a neon light in the middle, and this light, it was like she was talking to me.
She told me to come, to approach. So I'm coming, I'm entering the circle of fire

54

like a circus tiger. I approached the light of the flashlight ...
Raoul could not help but cut
- So a circle of fire and light in the center?
- That's it. As a target. Dunno if j'vous have said it spoke directly to my
brain. It said me going again. That all was well.
- And you advanced? inquired Amandine, passionate.
- Yes. I saw then as a kind of cone or funnel with things that were turning.
- What things?
- Well, stuff, what! Stars, vapors, weird stuff spurts swirling to form the damn
large funnel as a hundred houses stacked.
Raoul tapped his right fist against his left palm.
- The continent of the dead! if he exclaimed. He saw the mainland of the dead!
102
- Go on, please, I begged.
- Well, I still have advanced and more I advanced, the more light bothering me
to the point I felt that I could never turn around more. It would have looked
good, me and my remission! Serinait and the light in my head that this was more
important than the very bottom was only futility and stupidity ... Ah! that, she
spoke well. In addition, it was like a cave of Baba Ah, full of treasures, well
not of gold and silver, but full of pleasant sensations. It was good and hot,
sweet and gentle. As if I had found my mom. Z'avez not a glass of water? I have
the very dry mouth.
Amandine fetched a cup. He drained it in one gulp before resuming
- J'pouvais no choice but to move on, damn! But then I saw as a kind of
transparent wall. Not a brick wall rather a buttock skin wall. As gelatin. I
even thought I am in a hole of translucent ass. I realized that it got dicey. If
I crossed the wall, I could never come back and farewell, my eighty-year
reduction. I put on the brakes.
This guy was so happened to solve my problem of "choice." He had found reasons
to stay alive. I could not believe it.
He sighed
- It was not easy, know. The I had to really take on me to turn around with my
soul. And then, after a while, there was a kind of long silvery white string
that suddenly brought me here and I opened my peepers.
It was as if they were three of us, Raoul, Amandine and I, who had visited the
seventh heaven. Thus, all these sacrifices were not in vain. Our efforts finally
bore fruit. A man had crossed the barrier of death and he had returned to
describe the beyond. And what was it even further than this bright world and
immaterial?
After fresh water, Felix asked for a shot of rum. Amandine rushed again.
I excitai
- We need to organize a press conference. People need to know ...
Raoul nimbly calmed me.
- Too soon, he said. Currently, our project must remain what it is: top secret.
103
64 - LUCINDER
President Lucinder patted the neck of Vercingetorix. He exulted.
- They have managed, Mercassier?
- Yes. I saw with my own eyes, the videotape showing the launch and
réatterrissage this ... thanatonaute.
- Thanatonaute?
- That's the word they invented to designate their guinea pigs. It means
"traveler of death" or something like that, Greek.
President narrowed his eyelids and smiled
- Very nice, very poetic. Finally, I like the name. A bit technical, yes, but
some serious no adverse experience.

55

In fact, Lucinder jubilant. Any designation would enchanted macchabophiles,
mortopilotes, visitors paradise ... He would esbaudi the same.
Mercassier sought to bring attention to it. After all, he was the organizer of
the project, and it was legitimate that he be exalted to its success. Always
faithful to the line traced by his wife, he risked
- In short, they are like pioneers exploring a New Australia.
- Yes, Mercassier. You have finally understood my thought.
The Minister would seek to ensure the merit of this discovery but it was he, the
President at the grand vision that would enter the history books. Lucinder
thought he had won immortality. He would have his statue in squares, streets
would bear his name ... He had taken risks. He had paid the price: dozens dead,
hundreds, as it seemed ... But he had succeeded!
Mercassier interrupted his dreams of glory
- And now what do you do, Mr. Speaker?
65 - HISTORY MANUAL
From the first launches Thanatonautes, the results exceeded all expectations.
First volunteer, Felix Kerboz immediately managed to take off and land. The
pioneers were surprised to have reached as quickly to success.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
104
66 -MYTHOLOGIE CELTE
According to Celtic mythology, the afterlife is a mysterious area that knows no
death, nor work, nor winter. It is populated with gods, spirits and people to
eternal youth. The Welsh Annwn call this country. Here are the cauldron of
resurrection and the cauldron of plenty. The cauldron of resurrection gives life
to the dead warriors and the abundance provides the substance that will forever
those who consume it.
For the Welsh and the Irish, the Annwn, the afterlife, features the same reality
as the material world. Some magical practices are therefore sufficient to switch
from one to the other.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
-After 67 DAY
- I would be Felix.
Amandine, usually so reserved and no longer hide his glee. After every session,
I raccompagnais. That night, we were a little tipsy. Thanatodrome to lack of
funds we could not celebrate that sparkling our secret triumph. Plastic cups
were stolen too high.
- What a fantastic time we lived! As I would be the first man, the first
thanatonaute to have set foot on the continent and in Supreme returning! Oh, how
I would be Felix!
I tried to give him grounded.
- Not so simple. You have to be motivated. You heard, luimême was attracted by
the light. He hesitated to return. There succeeded only because it was
programmed primarily to secure his pardon in this world.
I accelerated. Behind the glass, a landscape of dreary suburbs marched in the
dark. I cast a sideways glance at Amandine who carefully repoudrait nose despite
bumps.
I began to know her better. Raoul told me about it. This pretty woman was a very
conscientious nurse. Too conscientious, even. She no longer bear to see her die
in hospital patients who were entrusted. At school already, it
105

56

not bear bad grades. At the hospital, each death was for her another zero
points. When his patient dies on the operating table, she felt responsible for.
His colleagues always repeated her it was not her fault, but she did not believe
it. She remained convinced that each death was further proof of his
incompetence.
Amandine imagined that people were dying for lack of love. For her, even someone
dying of generalized cancer had chosen. And if he had made this choice was that
his entourage had been unable to make him enjoy life. Consequently, she had
tried to love harder each patient. And as they were dying anyway, she reproached
herself for not having managed to pour on them enough affection.
Needless to say, in these conditions, Amandine Ballus would have done better to
change jobs. But, like Raoul, failures of inciting always start over, to
perfection or self-destruction. When she accidentally read an advert on a
project related to support for the dying and requiring a motivated nurse, she
hastened to answer. Hardly Raoul Razorbak he had spoken of the "Paradise" that
she was already determined to devote body and soul to this business of bringing
the dead back into the world of the living.
And as amazing as it sounds, that the victims of the project are first so many
do not scruple. Amandine was with a strange logic: it was all ready to kill some
people away hoping to save many others in an indeterminate future.
- I would be Felix, she repeated. He is so brave and very beautiful.
I pouted. It was not exaggerate. Brave, perhaps, but beautiful, it
pithécanthrope?
- He had to face terrible hardships, there.
It was she who was beautiful when she spoke to Felix.
- What do we do now? I asked to change the subject.
- We will increase the number of departures. Raoul has already announced the
good news to the Minister Mercassier. The President held personally congratulate
Anous. He has already contacted the institutional head for that selects a
hundred new Thanatonautes candidates.
106
She was as happy as if they were sympathetic to organize surprise parties.
- We won, she mumbled, holding his bliss.
Fiche 68 POLICE
Application of basic descriptive information
Name: Kerboz First name: Felix Hair: Blond and rare Size: 1 m 95
Distinguishing features: High stature, scarred face scars
Comments: First thanatonaute to have regained the world of the living Weakness:
low Intelligence Quotient
69-READ IN THE PRESS
SCANDAL. PRESIDENT LUCINDER SACRIFICES OF PRISONERS
COMMON LAW FOR ALLEGED SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTS
It took us a long investigation to convince us that President Lucinder was none
other than one of the greatest criminals of our time. Landru or more perverse
than that Petiot, President Lucinder, our Head of State, elected by a majority
of French, murdered in cold blood of the men he did not even know.
Its victims of common criminals who only wanted to serve their sentence with
confidence. His pretext or rather mobile, as you will: the study of death! For,
indeed, our President loves a particular hobby: not golfing, cooking in butter
or numismatics, but death!
Assisted by a few accomplices related to its cause, the Minister of Research
Mercassier, Professor Raoul Razorbak, crazy biologist, Dr. Michael Pinson,
Medical anesthétiste crooked, Amandine Ballus, pushy nurse, President killed
with a vengeance.
An estimated hundred twenty-three the number of prisoners already moved to death
thanks to the care of this "commando programmed death" and that, just to satisfy

57

the morbid curiosity of a despot head of state.
It's like back to these barbaric times where emperors
107
Romans had the right of life and death over a helpless slaves. Some were being
killed one after the other fellows at random to see if the tunic of Jesus Christ
came to resurrect.
However, nowadays there are more emperor (although Lucinder sometimes takes to a
Caesar!), There are more slaves. Or so we thought until now. We were convinced
to be led by a president democratically elected by his fellow citizens. A
president who has the primary duty to ensure the health of its citizens and not
to slay them!
Hardly the director of the prison in Fleury-Merogis, revolted by all these
corpses accumulating every day in his basement, he had revealed the terrible
truth exclusively to our editorial, the opposition was quick to demand the
lifting of presidential immunity. Parliament immediately appointed a commission
of inquiry to ascertain the facts.
Most respondents ministers refuse to surrender àl'évidence but some have already
announced that if the commission would provide proof of these serial killings,
they immediately offer their resignations.
For his part, Minister Mercassier did not wait the results of this additional
information and fled to Australia with his wife and thus escape prosecution.
70 Surrender YOU WITH THE PACK
A euphoria, followed bitterness. We had soared with the success of Kerboz we
fall back among the insults shovels and pursued by the general opprobrium.
The director of Fleury had managed its effect. The case was taking every day
more important. Newspapers renchérissaient in the offensive. Editorialists
suggested being asked to undergo our own experiences. Surveys revealed that 78%
of the population wanted to put us quickly out of harm's way behind solid bars.
An investigating judge opened an investigation. He summoned us to turn. He
promised preferential treatment if I loaded my accomplices. I guess he undertook
the same to others. When in doubt, I preferred to stay silent.
The judge ordered a search and police probed my
108
apartment floor by removing my latte latte as if I had been able to conceal the
bodies under there!
The meeting of owners graciously summoned me to clear out before the end of the
quarter. The concierge told me that my presence in the building was lower the
price per square meter.
I hardly dared leave the house. On the streets, children ran after me, shouting,
"The Butcher of Fleury-Merogis, the butcher of Fleury-Merogis" To keep us warm
each other, we took the habit with Amandine, to find ourselves regularly at
Raoul. He seemed to take things casually. These mishaps passengers do not impede
the course of the story, he felt.
However, he had the merit to remain as serene. He had been fired from his
research position at CNRS. His Renault 20 convertible exploded in an attack
claimed by a "Committee of surviving prisoners" unknown to this day. On the door
of his building was bulging in big red letters: "Here remains the murderer of
123 innocent people."
As we went up another morale by reminding us of the rise of Kerboz, a man with
hat pulled down over his eyes doorbell rang. The Lucinder president himself. It
was the first time I saw him. After quick presentations, he transmitted us the
latest information about our business. He was not very encouraging. Planting
himself at the table as if holding the meeting, he declaimed
- My friends, we are preparing to face the storm. What we have suffered so far
is nothing compared to what awaits us. Friends and political enemies have
conspired to settle my account. They do not care much for some prisoners

58

consigned ad patres but many would become Caliph instead of the Caliph. I
especially wary of my friends, they know how to reach me. I regret that you have
dragged into the turmoil, but after all we knew the risk we were taking. If only
this ungrateful idiot Mercassier and director of Fleury-Merogis had not betrayed
us!
The President lowered his arm. I was on the verge of panic. Raoul, faithful to
himself, did not blink even when a stone came smash a living room window.
He served whiskey around.
- You are all mistaken. Never circumstances have we been as favorable, he said.
Without these unforeseen leaks, we
109
would still be tinkering in the basement of the prison. Now we will work to
light. President, the whole world will bow to your boldness and your genius.
Lucinder looked skeptical.
- Come, come, I am nothing. No longer bother to flatter me.
- But if my friend insisted. Michael was right when he said that it was
necessary to disclose our results faster to the press. Felix is a hero. He
deserves fame and recognition.
The President did not understand where Razorbak meant. I had caught immediately.
In its place, I threw
- We must attack instead of limiting us in the defense. All together, all united
against the fools!
Initially, we had the impression of a group of conspirators about to be trapped.
And then, gradually, we looked. We were few, but we had guts. We were not
especially gifted, yet together we tried to change the world. You should not
give up. Amandine, Raoul, Felix Lucinder. Never had I felt so accomplice other
humans.
71-GREEK MYTHOLOGY
Left for dead on a battlefield, the Er Pamphylian found himself in a wealthy
part of four openings: two in the sky, both on Earth. The virtuous souls
ascended to heaven. The shadows descended to Earth. Criminal souls down there by
a slot, and the other went up the souls covered with dust.
Er saw the punishment of the wicked. He reached into the wonderful place where
the column is the axis of the world rises. Accompanied by souls, he went to
Céthé which flows the river whose waters Amélès provide oblivion.
There was a rumble and Er came alive on the funeral pyre to the chagrin of
humans around him. He told how he had seen the land of the dead and was unharmed
income. No one believed his story. It turned her back in disgust.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
72- FULL SPEED AHEAD
The scandal took insane proportions. Pictures of what they called our "school of
programmed death" were spread to the pages of all the newspapers. A flood light
flashes, the room seemed a sinister room of torture. Malicious journalists had
even added the foreground bloody scalpels and still covered with glued hair
clips.
Then came the discovery of the "presidential grave." In fact, the crematorium of
the prison of Fleury-Merogis. As there was no trace of the bodies of our unlucky
Thanatonautes, journalists had imagined montages with reddened mannequins.
They had photographed fuzzy way to give an even more drama and more realistic.
As if these pictures were taken by a spy in our business. A reporter even had
the boon to photograph a real suicide of Fleury-Merogis. The guy hung himself
well after they had denied us access to thanatodrome. It changed nothing. His
bloated portrait, tongue and eyes bulging out, quickly made the cover of every

59

magazine. "They dared!" Was he soberly registered under the picture of this
unfortunate that we had never seen. Just below our Anous portraits were
displayed: the killers. We carried defamation complaint but it was no use.
Like rats leaving the ship, the ministers resigned one after the other. An
emergency government was formed. President Lucinder was removed from office as
head of state until more information.
Since Australia Mercassier Lucinder accused of having forced to act without
considering its refusal. He however made no reference to our successful
experience.
Lucinder was careful to replicate piecemeal. He merely a television appearance
in a popular show to state that all the pioneers had been criticized in their
time. He spoke of unimaginable progress, conquest of the beyond, an unexplored
continent.
The journalist who questioned remained unmoved. She recalled that even ordinary
prisoners were men and not guinea pigs, even a president violated the law by
allowing deadly experiments.
Jean Lucinder ignored his remarks. In conclusion he faced the camera and
announced bluntly
- Dear viewers, fellow citizens, yes, I admit, we have killed in the name of
knowledge, to overcome our human condition. And we succeeded! One of our
volunteers went into the beyond and is free income. His name is Felix Kerboz.
This is something of a pilot, a passenger's death. We call it a thanatonaute. We
are ready to start over with him experience live. If it fails, I am prepared to
submit to your judgment and I understand very well its hardness. Tomorrow,
tomorrow, I suggest you start with my team attempted to take off beyond. All
televisions of the Hexagon and the world will be present, the event will take
place at the Convention Center in 16 hours.
73 -MYTHOLOGIE INDIAN AMAZON
Formerly men did not die.
One day, however, a young girl met the god of Old Age. He exchanged his hoary
and wrinkled skin against his, which was soft and supple.
Since, men grow old and die.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
74 - ALL FOR ALL
16 hours. The Palais des Congrès in Paris, full of people. Spectators exchanged
newspapers and commented on new overwhelming evidence emanating from the
indefatigable and relentless Mercassier director of Fleury-Merogis, becoming a
star.
In the front row two deputies did not hide their feelings
- Poor Lucinder, it's over. He wanted to know the land of the dead, he will be
served! His political death is irreversible in all cases.
- Still, said the other dubiously, all this staging ... It must remain a few
biscuits. It is an old fox.
- Do you think! It is his swan song. It has more than 0.5% favorable opinion!
Normal. There surely was 0.5% in the population crazy to believe in the
supernatural and the NDE.
They shrugged their shoulders.
Brightly lit by two spotlights, a pretty redhead spoke reporter facing a camera
- Eight scientists are present in the room to monitor all the operations and
avoid fixing. Some experts have expressed concern that President Lucinder uses
twin brothers, killing one better resurrect another. It is an old tower known

60

prestidigitation. But with so many eyes and deflected goals on the scene, such
muddles will be impossible. It is hard to imagine a head of state, already
battered in opinion, willing to try!
Pending the "show", groups were formed. We discussed, we questioned
- You read the article in the Morning? A scientist explains very well why it is
impossible to survive death. "Once a brain ceases to be irrigated, he necrosis.
When a nerve cell dies, it loses its physiological faculties, so his powers of
representation and memory."
- And this natural overdose Faribole endocrine liquid that would cause
hallucinations travel, you believe it?
There were sniggers. .
- I do not see why a body in agony use his remaining energy to produce images!
exclaimed someone.
The two deputies calèrent in armchairs in the front row.
- Lucinder wanted to go down in history with a capital H, 'said one. He no
longer has to worry. He will return there. And through the front door, again!
Hundred twenty-three murders on the arms, it is not every morning that a head of
state carries such a hat.
- Beautiful trial in prospect!
The spotlight lit up. On the stage sat a single dentist's chair. There were also
lots of electrical son connected to giant screens were flashing like so many
blind eyelets.
The event would be broadcast duplex in sixty countries. A president is
ridiculing live, the show was as good a rock'n roll concert or a football match!
Machinists settled eight chairs around the chair
dentist. There sit the eight experts appointed by the committee. Four doctors,
three biologists, and even a magician.
They emerged to applause. The room was unleashed. She praises of those old
beards of the Academy as so many matadors in the arena down together to defeat a
big devious bull. They had a little stage fright. Never had they enjoyed such
popularity in their previous work. Some even held out their hands toward the
crowd. If they could promise the ears and tail of the President, they would not
be in private. As of banderillas, they drew their pens and began to write on
small rigid notebooks all kinds of comments on this material.
A famous TV presenter hair slicked climbed in on the stage, accompanied by a
cameraman and a sound recordist. After some trials testing voice and image, the
red light of the camera flashed.
- Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, and thank you to look RTVL, the chain that
show you more. Here, in this room the Congress Palace, the atmosphere is highly
charged. The President is preparing Bio Add Lucinder his career on a fantastic
gamble: to show the world that it is possible to visit the afterlife as if it
was only a distant continent. In public, the emotion is Ason fills. Will we
helplessly to a new assassination live? Or, on the contrary, the experience of
the century? The suspense is intense ...
75-MYTHOLOGIE GREENLANDIC
For the population of Greenland, paradise is at the ocean bottom. Y reigns
perpetual summer the midnight sun. Those who toiled here below can finally relax
and enjoy the fruits of their efforts. There is a kingdom of abundance where no
lack of dogs or reindeer, neither fish nor bears. The seals found there all
cooked and ready to eat.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
76 - FAMILY
It was first my mother called me
- My son, do not go!
Conrad, he advised me to stop me quick in Argentina.
All these self-righteous people who wanted my well sickened me and strengthened

61

my will to the contrary bury myself in my marginality.
I assured them that there was no question for me to leave my friends in trouble.
I had my share of responsibility in these events. I would assume.
- Well, if you go, I'll go too, 'said my mother. I always defend my son, tooth
and nail, whatever happens!
And that's what she did. Spotted by RTVL journalist who sought to fill the air
in anticipation of the big moment, my progenitor live emptied his heart, before
millions of voyeurs.
- You see, Michael has always been too nice and ready to help everyone. It
certainly has its small flaws, but it is not a criminal. If the President of the
Republic has been led by these enlightened, why not my son? It is because of
loneliness if my boy finds himself embroiled in this story. Living every single
time, it goes to your head! If only he had listened to me, if only he had
married, we would not be here! My little Michael never had a lot of will. It was
always thank you to those who speak loudly. As Razorbak. (Then lower :) Ah,
tell, I have a question. Do you think I could send him parcels in his prison
cell?
The slicked journalist recognized his ignorance on this and politely thanked my
mother.
77-BIBLE MYTHOLOGY
report.
According to the Bible, Adam's life comes down to twelve steps
In the first hour, the dust gathered.
In the second hour, the dust turned into a mass
At the third time, members were fashioned. At the fourth hour, a soul was
infused.
At the fifth hour, he stood.
At the sixth hour, he knew designate his surroundings.
At the seventh time, he received companion Eve.
At the eighth hour, two on a bed they went, they went down to four.
At the ninth hour, he received orders not to taste the fruit of knowledge.
At the tenth hour he made the mistake.
At the eleventh hour, he was tried.
At the twelfth hour, he was driven from the Garden of Eden.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
78 WELFARE OR NOT TO BE
First to enter the arena - understand: on stage - I do not was leading off. The
committee of experts refused to shake hands with me and behind me, I guessed
Amandine, mingled with fear.
The audience burst into boos.
A man in a jacket and hat pulled away
- Crapule! You killed my son!
My best, I clung to the microphone
- We have murdered anyone! I cried myself to break the throat. No one! All
inmates who participated in the project "Paradise" had volunteered for the
experience. They knew the risks and they themselves whenever pressed the button
triggering the flight process.
- On the fly? Death, yes! Who can volunteer to die? There is a volunteer here?
someone yelled.
- Death to killers in white coats! Dead killers in white coats! chanted raging
spectators.
The whistles were redoubled when President Lucinder approached the microphone in
turn. Tomatoes landed at his feet. The cordon of police faced the scene fleshed
out emergency reinforcements.

62

In his hands, the President made some gestures of appeasement. His long habit of
disturbed political meetings had taught him to hold sway over rough room.
- Ladies and gentlemen, my friends, he said, calm down! The experiExperience we will try to you has already succeeded, but in the absence of any
official expert may testify. Now I submit myself to the judgment of the nation,
the same planet. If the man we send to you in the afterlife does not return, I
pledge to appear before any appropriate court of justice to answer for my
failures.
Some insults were heard yet, but very soon, a heavy silence replaced the tumult.
Felix Kerboz had just appeared. The spotlights were pointed at him immediately
and impeccable tuxedo that was his new uniform thanatonaute. His bandit head
contrasted with his dandy clothes. He arrived between two gendarmes. A tormented
figure of Felix, I realized that something was wrong.
The television presenter rushed
- And here Kerboz Felix, one man, according to the president Lucinder to have
accomplished the impossible return between the world of the living and the dead.
This feat, he will try again before the cameras of the world and national
exclusivity for RTVL, the chain that show you more!
Our team exchanged worried glances. We all know Felix enough to perceive his
agitation. Was it the crowd intimidated?
The President gave him a big pat on the shoulder.
- Fit, Felix?
A grimace even more disfigured the face of Felix. Viewers who joined the show en
route wondered if they had not zapped by mistake a horror film.
- Well, it might get better, our thanatonaute murmured.
- Stage fright?
- Oh, that's not it, yelped Felix. I have an ingrown toenail that bothers me
and, damn, I have not closed my eyes all night.
Lucinder sursauta.
- An ingrown toenail? Why did not you say so!
Lucinder was yelling but it was not the time.
- An ingrown toenail? I know that. It is very painful but it can be treated
easily.
- I have taken aspirin but it hurts me anyway. What crap!
I suggested to postpone the operation until later. If Felix suffered it
let himself be sucked into light rather than return to his carcass sore.
The President begged
- You will come back to life, Felix, you promise me? I have already signed a
decree of amnesty. If you succeed, you will be free, finally free. You see,
Felix? You will now be a respectable citizen!
The man did not seem convinced.
Assistance hesitated between new insults or applause but held his breath.
The facilitator explained that President encouraged her foal Ala like a coach
before a boxing match.
We, the dark mine, we were preparing our instruments.
Now Lucinder downright shook Felix
- You will be free! We will call you Mr. Kerboz and you will be rich and famous!
We will put you in a car and discover the people applaud you and launch confetti
as Neil Armstrong after his first steps on the Moon!
- Yeah, I 'm pleased if there was not this damn ingrown toenail.
- Damn, after all toxic potions that you ingested, your ulcer, your skin
blisters and your hole, this is still not an unfortunate painful toe that will
make you give up your hopes of a better life!
- But it's so much there, it feels so light, there is no longer any hassles ...
Lucinder inveighed
- Felix, life, this is still not the blank!
- J'me c'qui demand there is good in this life. The problem is that j'm'en
remember.
- Money, women, perfumes, sunsets over the sea, cars, palaces, enumerated

63

Lucinder.
Then putting himself in the end politics in the skin of his guinea pig, he added
- And if you prefer alcohol, drugs, violence, speed ... Come, Felix! We need
you. Have friends àprésent a Chairman, outstanding scholars, the most beautiful
nurses! So many people do not have your chance! And we are all counting on you.
Felix looked down and blushed like a guilty child
- Yeah, I dunno everything. But above they m'veulent good, them
too. I have not had so much luck in this world and this ingrown toenail in
addition, these hostile people before ... In this world I did not get much
satisfaction. I've never had to think carefully.
Lucinder the colossus looked in amazement
- No satisfaction, Felix? You mean ... Never ... You never ...
Our wardrobe was now scarlet.
- Well, yeah. Nobody ever loved me except my mother, and my mother, in fact,
it's up there.
The crowd was growing impatient.
- Death to the monkey! launched a joker.
The facilitator furnished it somehow
- Felix Kerboz measure 1.95 m and weighs 100 kg rather harmonious measurements
for a man his age. According to the press release, the weight and size may not
affect the quality of the passage from life to death but it is preferable
however, that the subject is in good physical condition.
Amandine had lost none of the conversations between Felix and President. She
moved
- You are a virgin, Felix? Right?
He veered to burgundy.
The blonde nurse hesitated, thought a moment, then whispered something in the
ear of his patient. Suddenly the face of Felix passed through several colors of
the rainbow in the sky. He stretched his lips into a smile caricature. Side by
side, they looked like Quasimodo and Esmeralda. A Quasimodo preparing to go to
the scaffold ...
He never left Amandine eyes. It resumed.
- Well, let's go. My nail is being fucking leave me alone for a moment.
Lucinder suggested that I add to my analgesic boosters for Felix no longer feel
his toe. But I refused. It was not the time to experiment with new blends. 800
milligrams of thiopental would my dose and there would be no other drug outside
the usual potions.
President Lucinder unhooked the tuxedo bow tie Kerboz. He lifted his sleeve and
placed the electrodes. We could have sworn he had done it all his life.
- Lucinder, go get dressed, you're a murderer!
I went to give him a hand. After all, now, we were all in the same boat.
Amandine was busy diligently.
She felt all the jokes like so many spears. But she preferred to play all out.
She settled the electrocardiogram, electroencephalogram and dedicated me a
knowing smile lean while the insults continued to rain.
- Assassins! Assassins!
The slogan was taken up by the whole room which chanted in rhythm.
Felix Kerboz breathed slowly, more and more slowly, as Raoul had taught him to
do so. He inspired with the nose, blowing with the mouth. This method of
artificial respiration was invented, it seems, to help women to give birth
without pain.
- From my side everything is ready! declared the president Lucinder who finished
for one more electrode on the hairy chest of thanatonaute.
- Ready too, said Raoul, tightening the pulse sensors.
- Ready! I said.
- Ready! Amandine adds.
The scientific committee came to better examine the entire device. They checked
that the electrodes were in compliance with standards. They also took the pulse
of Felix. The magician gave your heels into the floor of the stage, looking for
a trap or any rocker device. He stuck a needle into the foam of the chair, which

64

delighted the audience who expected that perhaps discovers a secret passage in
our dentist's chair. When he finished, he sent a sign to others. They noted with
alacrity all kinds of information. Then they sat down again, satisfied for the
moment, and we made a gesture that meant we could proceed. Silence.
In the vastness of the convention center, you could have heard a soul fly.
- Let's go! Raoul growled, somewhat annoyed by this hostile crowd.
- Well, ciao, friends! Felix said waving his big sausage fingers.
Amandine stroked his thin hair and placed a small kiss on the corner of his
lips, just as he was closing his eyes.
- Come back! she whispered.
Felix smiled counting
120
this life.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one ... Liftoff!
And nimbly he pressed the switch and steered out of
79 - HISTORY MANUAL
Towards the end of the twentieth century, dictionaries and encyclopedias gave
death the following definitions
DEATH: termination of life.
Current Definition: We say that someone died when his heart stopped beating and
he stopped breathing.
American definition, adopted in 1981: A person is declared dead after
irreversible cessation of all brain functions.
Medical Definition: Irreversible cessation of cardiac contractions. Artificial
respiration maintained by a mechanical lung. Total abolition of reflexes.
Disappearance of all electroencephalographic signal. Total destruction of brain
structures.
Formalities in case of death: Notify the death to the nearest town. The medical
examiner will check the area of death and will prepare a statement that he will
give to the family of the deceased or to a funeral attendant. Accompanied by
family book of the deceased, this finding must be submitted to the Civil
Registry of the municipality who will issue in exchange for a burial permit and
a coffin closing permission. In cases of violent or suspicious death, the
coroner notifies the prosecutor may require an autopsy. The family is not
obliged to make public the cause of death. It is mandatory to wait twenty-four
hours less before the funeral.
Concession Price: Varies, depending on length, awareness of the cemetery and the
price of land. The square meter is obviously more expensive in cities than in
the countryside.
3000 F for ordinary white wooden coffin. Counting supplements to ebony,
mahogany, interior upholstery.
1800 F for the funeral, more depending on the number of undertakers available.
3000 F for renting the hearse.
4800 F for funeral items, flowers and various decorations. 700 F for mason.
1000 F per year for cleaning and restoration of the burial.
200 F for announcements. More postage.
1000 F VAT.
1300 F municipal tax.
200 F of religious service (supplements stipulate by confessions and requested
services: Mass, choir, etc.).
A total of 17,000 F minimum, plus concession.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
80 -ATTENTE

65

For the past ten minutes, a continuous line marched on the electrocardiogram and
still not a single ping!
As usual, Raoul Razorbak noted in his notebook all the parameters: time,
temperature, heart operations, brain, electrical, personal impressions, etc.
Raoul returned, worried.
- So? I ventured.
He shrugged.
The crowd was silent, scrutinizing the man lying s e projectors. Turning around
the chair like flies around a corpse, experts also took their notes, their pen
crunching loudly on the graph paper. They always had to consider a new dial.
They did that mainly to stretch your legs but were taking tunes heard suggesting
the worst.
The magician was the best actor: him, he had all kinds of dubious expressions.
The presenter did not know how RTVL fill the vacant time. He spoke of the
weather, suitable to this kind of experience, and history of the Congress Palace
which saw unfold before his roof so many startling events.
Clasped hands and face Madonna, Amanda prayed in silence.
Me too.
81-SCANDINAVIAN MYTHOLOGY
Balder was a caring Norse god. Son of Odin, he was known for his compassion and
beauty. One night he dreamed of his own
death. The gods conceived great concern and his mother, the goddess Frigg,
forced almost everything and everybody to never harm her son. She took oath of
good will to the earth, iron, stones, trees, diseases, birds, fish, snakes, all
animals.
Noting that Balder was invulnerable now, the gods amused themselves by throwing
out all sorts of dangerous objects which, however, never hurt him.
However, it happened that, jealous of Balder power, the evil god Loki disguised
himself as a woman and went to Frigg to snatch his secret. He learned that the
goddess had neglected to swear in a plant called Mystletainn because it
considered too frail and too fragile to be able to cause any harm to his son.
Loki then convinced Hod, the blind god of seizing the plant and hit Balder.
Guided by Loki, Balder Hédr mortally wounded because the plant was transformed
into javelin. Loki then announced to everyone that we can not escape death, even
when one is blessed by the gods.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
82-IN CONVENTION CENTRE
The plainclothes police who had slipped into the room on the
soliciting the judge hearing the case approached gradually
the scene. They did not want that we can escape after
the failure of our representation.
It was now five minutes and we massaged
Felix electrocution without result.
The silent crowd became less silent.
Scientific experts stretched smiles heard after
each electric shock, approached to pet him learnedly
Felix wrist and check his pulse. They were very happy because we do
perceived nothing.
I took off my white coat, and vest, dripping
sweat, I continued to practice cardiac massage. We were counting
together "one, two, three," I pressed on the chest with
my two hands flat in the core region, and Raoul breathed air
in the nostrils with a manual pump to boost activity
breathing.

66

122
123
The police approached yet.
- One two Three! Come on, one believes, it believes, repeating my friend.
He was right. We had to believe it. Hand in the fire can stay there if believed
invulnerable. He had shown me.
We bousculions unceremoniously for the least of our manceuvres. And pessimism we
gained more we bousculions. They did not seem to be paying attention. It is
normal that the bull attempts to injure the matadors before his killing.
In the room, the slight background noise, had succeeded gossip and rumors. We
even perceived contents laughter.
Another moment, and it would be the kill.
Other officers took faction behind us so as to prevent a leak by us backstage.
Faith moves mountains, why would she not capable of reproducing a small miracle
from nothing, only make life in this big bag of skin filled with blood and guts?
- If there is a living cell in the meat, it must respond to my call, said Raoul.
Ahoy! ahoy! we are there, we wait. One, two, three, one, two, three.
And he pressed the chest of Felix.
- Man, wake up, Felix. Do not fuck! I cried in my turn.
A policeman took the stage. We must have looked crazy dangerous letting off
steam on a corpse to all viewers following our prowess.
- One two Three! Awake, Felix, dammit!
A policeman took out handcuffs.
- One two Three! Felix, God, do not let us down!
The eight experts confirming death came with tunes heard. Flies on a crushed
fruit.
A policeman grabbed my wrist. I heard a sharp snap of handcuffs and a voice
uttered: "On behalf of the law, I arrest you for murder by poisoning."
Already Raoul and Amanda were also handcuffed. They dared not touch Lucinder who
crowned his status as President of the French Republic, remained untouchable.
- To death! Death to the Thanatonautes! screamed the room too happy to see his
boss in trouble.
Nothing is more enjoyable for the people to see his masters dragged through the
mud.
- The death penalty for Thanatonautes!
124
Front row, brother proclaimed, "I will told you so." My mother tried to calm
itself throughout the room. She began with its immediate neighbors. Then she
went out into the aisles.
- My son has nothing to do, stop, you are mistaken, my son has nothing to do, he
got carried away.
She had everything. Later, during the trial, it is clear my notebooks good
points from kindergarten to prove that I was a good boy. She had also bought a
dress advance of the hearing.
The police took us by the arm to take us àtravers the fevered room. Already
people approached to insult us and spit on us. What a horrible sensation of
having his hands cuffed while people booed you. Someone threw a nine rotten that
came crashing down on my forehead. Amandine received a tomato. Raoul was also
entitled him to his new, greener and more stinking than mine.
The President had Lucinder stale, collapsed. He did not think to help us or help
Felix, only he thought he was wrong, he had delirium and regretted everything.
He who wanted to be famous, now it was over. He had failed to win at Alesia,
like Caesar. At the last moment, death, supreme bastion, had proved impregnable.
The journalist RTV1 motioned to his cameraman to increase the close-ups on the
impassive face of Felix. It clung to her torch a few centimeters from the face
and filming his every pore motionless, his every hair grilling under strong
light.

67

Bye, Felix.
The police pulled me by the handcuffs.
It happened then something unexpected.
They heard a loud "Ouch."
All breathing stopped. All we remained frozen. I recognized the voice that had
said "Ouch". That voice, that voice ...
The man responsible for the light had tripped and dropped his flashlight on the
eye of Felix.
Already presenter exultant.
- This is incredible, folks, just incredible, stupendous and colossal. Man, that
can be called from now on, "the first man to officially set foot in the
afterlife and to be back," is ... alive. Felix Kerboz is alive!
125
By order of the experts, the police quickly put away dazed our handcuffs. The
room had become silent. We only heard the inexhaustible host of television that
retailed meter comments too happy to finally have the spectacular in his show.
He knew he was playing his career and he did not intend to miss a rare
opportunity. He too now had to have his name inscribed in the history books, the
worst in the history books of journalism.
- I can tell you that emotion is general. Once the first table began to ring on
the electroencephalogram, there was first an incredulous moment, then a clamor
rose in the room. A cry of terror, ladies and gentlemen, because we are all
aware that it was a death that came back among the living. RTVL, the chain that
show you more, you will board a slowed - the first movement of eyelids Felix
Kerboz. An eye movement occurred long after stopping his heart. And eyelid
movement occurred, it must be said, thanks to us, thanks to ... RTVL the same TV
that revives the dead. I'll try immediately to have an exclusive interview with
Felix, and right after we pass a page of advertising. We recall, however, that
this whole evening was sponsored by the Black Dragon waxing. Black Dragon
polish, the only one that gets you out of Coltar.
Lucinder, Amandine, Raoul and I were between laughter and tears. We ran to get
back on stage. The show must go on. Doctors and scientists retreated stunned and
shook their heads as if they could not believe their own eyes, their own ears,
their own tactile sense.
They continued to feel Felix, check the testing machines. There was even a
scientist to look under the chair.
If you still would have substituted a twin brother to the corpse.
I took the pulse of Felix, listened to his heart, his retina examined his teeth.
But everyone knew, saw, was forced to acknowledge irrefutable. We succeeded.
Raoul, Felix, Amandine, and I Lucinder against fools.
Felix spluttered.
- Fuck the trip, damn, I've never had this, like this. A ... so I have or I have
not, my amnesty?
126
Amandine rushed and whispered something in his ear. Immediately his eyes made
eureka.
He leaned toward the microphone and mouthed journalist RTVL perfectly
- That's one small step for my soul, but one giant leap for mankind.
Suddenly the tension fell. Standing there ovationna the hero. We can not say
enough the importance of a good slogan. Applause rang out. Nobody held her
cheers.
- RTVL Dear viewers, this is a historic moment and a historic phrase comes to
deliver us our national thanatonaute. One small step for my soul, but one giant
leap for mankind. The nod to history is superb. This man managed a Near Death
Experience live before us. What has traveled? Faute de mieux, Felix named it its

68

"soul". The image is poetic. It remains to find a scientific explanation. It is
with great ...
We hugged Felix Kerboz fervently.
- All right, here? Uh ... and my amnesty, it is still
OK?
- You. You got it, you're free now! announced the president Lucinder.
- Not too early. Damn, we must take pains these days to be bourgeois!
Amandine never left him.
- You are the! You are there: living.
- Well ... yeah, you know I came back. Chuis income buddies. This time, I have
looked, I have looked at everything. If you want, I can draw a picture to show
you how it is. Damn, it's not croyab 'I can tell you.
Raoul Razorbak approached nervously.
- A map! We will draw a map of the continent of the dead and every time we move
forward, we will defer the new details in this map.
The room was unleashed.
The presenter RTV1 we continued by claiming
- Hep! Kerboz sir, that's RTV1. Our viewers have a right to know what it was
like up there! Mr. Kerboz, you are the hero of the century, Mr. Kerboz!
Felix paused, then uttered for words
127
- Well ... I can tell you that death, damn, it's incredible, it's not at all
what is believed, there are plenty of colors, full sets, full of ... it moves A
LOT! Oh, and I do not know how to talk, is too much.
The journalist RTVL we stuck to Basque. He had to fill out a time quota for its
polish and it had not yet fully achieved. He begged any comment.
Raoul gave me a kick in the ribs.
- Come on, Michael, do them a speech!
Without even thinking I stepped on the podium. All flashes lit me.
- Ladies and gentlemen, we had the best reward. We managed to send and retrieve
a thanatonaute.
There was a silence. A journalist asked me a question
- Dr. Finch, you're one of the greatest architects of the victory today. How do
you do now .;
I went a little microphone.
- Today is a big day.
Everyone listened.
- We have defeated death. Starting today, nothing is the same. We must
completely change our views. We just switch to a new universe. There will always
be a before and after today. I myself have difficulty to believe. Yet we have to
prove that ...
That's when the evil that again reappeared sentence.
(But, in fact, what am I doing here?)
- We have to prove that ...
Suddenly I became aware of being there, here and now, having accomplished
something historic. After this bizarre thought in his head, nothing could hunt.
The crowd continued to listen, television zoomait on my face. Millions of people
live watching me, mouth open and saying nothing.
- Dr. Finch?
I was unable to utter a syllable. The journalist, very embarrassed, tried to
chain themselves.
- Hmm ... And you, Mr. President ... you managed àprouver your good faith, is
that it will change your policy before the next parliamentary?
128
President Lucinder no porta attention. He muttered us
- Come, my friends, do not take care of the plebs. We are now out of the woods,

69

continue the effort. Will draw the first plans of the continent from the dead.
- Where?
- In thanatodrome of Fleury-Merogis. Only where we will have peace.
Our small group was becoming more cohesive.
83-MYTHOLOGIE PERSANE
"Fish said to duck in the pan" Do you believe that the water will rise one day
over the river? "The duck answered:" When we are roasted, the world is matter
sea or mirage? "
From the Earth to Saturn
I solved all the problems,
I avoided the traps and ambushes,
I undid each node, except that of death. "
Omar Khayyam (1050-1123), Rubai YAT.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
84 - A CARD
A clamor rose congratulations cells. Prisoners had followed live on RTVL the
"journey" of Felix. Our thanatonaute waved around and blinked his eyes, this
time as if to say: "I knew it, I told you so."
In the Lazaretto transformed into thanatodrome, Raoul seized a cardstock and
colored pens. We made a circle around him while Felix tried to accurately
describe his visions of the beyond.
It was touching to behold this brute, searching for words, searching his mind in
search of the exact phrase, so eager to please us, his first friends.
He scratched his forehead, he scratched his back, he scratched his armpits. He
frowned. The cartographer became impatient
129
- So how was it?
- Well, first there is the funnel on the edges with a sort of crown of foam or
cotton, something like that.
Raoul began a sketch
- No, said Felix. Wider, the funnel.
He closed his eyes to better see the magical image.
- Like a neon tire that would scatter in filoches lace. Something liquid ... How
to say? Big waves of bluish stars powder, aquatic light spurts. We really like
being suspended in the air in the open ocean, an ocean that would turn on itself
to form a ring of light and sparks.
Pithecanthropus became poet. Amandine was touched.
Raoul faded, began a pattern that resembled a slightly thinned lettuce
- That's better, Felix nodded. Understand? It floats in a kind of light frost,
it nevertheless feels a pleasant sensation of freshness Navy. It really recalled
the first time I saw the sea.
- What color exactly, all that?
- Well, white-blue neon More ... increasingly and spinning like a carousel. It
aspired lots of other macchabs around me. They all had white son clinging to
their belly button that net broke when they were racing away inside the cone.
- Who were breaking net? Lucinder marveled.
- Well, yeah. So they were freed from below and they could further accelerate a
good shot.
- Who were those people? asked Amanda.
- The macchabs of all countries, of all races, young, old, big, small ...
Raoul intima us to keep quiet. Our questions were likely to distract the
Explorer. It would provide us the latest details we wanted.
- Continue with your white-blue funnel.

70

- Well, it narrows a bit to turn into a giant tube. There, the colors of the
walls and darker turn turquoise. Turquoise, I did not go far but I saw where it
took this color.
- The funnel is always running?
- Yeah, very slowly on the edges and faster and faster as
130
and as we advance. Then it shrinks and becomes brighter. II there was the crowd
in the turquoise hallway, and even I changed shape.
- You were what?
Felix straightened proudly.
- I still had my body thanatonaute but it had become transparent, so transparent
that I could see through myself. That was neat. I had completely forgotten my
body. I felt even my ingrown toenail. I was like ...
A feather? I suggested, thinking of the Egyptian Book of the Dead that Raoul had
quoted me.
- Yeah. Or a slightly hardened airstream.
Raoul was busy on his paper. Its design took shape. The funnel, the corridor of
people cutting their long transparent umbilical cords ... Death she finally
revealed her appearance? It looked from afar a large disheveled head.
- It was great? I asked.
- Huge. The closest place I saw must have had a diameter of several tens of
kilometers! Think that all macchabs the planet is engulfed in the fast time in
there! And, oh yes! were not high and there was no bottom. We could have walked
p't'être on the walls but it was not worth it, since we flew.
- There were also animals? inquired Amandine.
- Nah, no cattle. As humans. But there were in complete herds. There must be a
war somewhere that provides a lot of barbaque. And all this quietly slipped into
the corridor without hitting despite the speed. We were all attracted to the
light like moths.
Raoul lifted his pencil.
- All these dead so transparent are bound to clash at some point, I remarked.
- Where did you stopped exactly? Lucinder questioned.
On paper, Felix pointed to a location on the flared edge of the white-blue
funnel.
- Here.
So precisely stunned us.
- J'pouvais not go further, explained Felix. A centimeter more and my silver
cord was cut and it was also "ciao the company."
- But you said that the cord was infinitely elastic, remarked the President.
- It is in the head as it happens. The more one is magnetized by light, the cord
becomes more dry and brittle, the more it weakens. Hell, even one centimeter
more and I hated to see this world. That point, it was my last limit.
He put his finger in one place. Black felt, Raoul Razorbak traced to a long
dashed line: "comatic Wall", he wrote underneath.
- And what does that mean? I said.
- I think it's like the sound barrier in his time. This is a limit that can not
yet safe to cross. Now that we have the beginning of the map, we have a goal
beyond this line.
So Raoul enrolled behind the line marking the comatic wall in thick letters:
Terra incognita.
Unknown land.
We considérâmes paper with respect. So we was beginning the exploration of a new
continent. A first contact, first the beach, and then, progressively as the
pioneers were advancing inland, mountains, meadows, lakes took their places on
the map and Terra incognita always retreated further to the edges of the paper.
Thus was he went to Africa, America, Australia. Gradually men had erased the two
words, ignorance label.
Terra incognita ... Witnesses experience the convention center had believed
attend the culmination of a project politicoscientifique. We four, Lucinder,

71

Amandine, Raoul and I, we knew that, on the contrary, it was not an end but a
beginning.
We had to explore this purple tunnel that became turquoise. We had to complete
the map and reverse the two words: Terra incognita.
Raoul clasped his hands.
- All right, straight into the unknown, he muttered, without repressing a
glorious conquistador smile.
It was a new slogan to motivate us.
We looked all with the same look in his eye.
The adventure was only beginning.
Forward to the Unknown.
SECOND PERIOD
TIME PIONEER
85-PRESS
Journal de Paris: SENSATION IN CONVENTION CENTRE
FRENCH PUT A FOOT ON THE CONTINENT OF THE DEAD
The first man to officially set foot in the Hereafter is French and is named
Felix Kerboz. We have long affirm in our editorials, our confidence in the
ambitious projects of our president Lucinder. Through his efforts, it is a
national team that has trumped all of our global competitors, advancing pioneer
on the mainland of the dead. Our magazine decreed already Félix Kerboz man of
the year, and launched a petition that he be awarded as soon as the Legion of
Honour.
London paper: A EUROPEAN IN BEYOND
Death can be visited. A team of European researchers has successfully send a man
into the afterlife and to bring back safe and sound. As too often, alas! success
has been preceded by numerous unsuccessful attempts. It is estimated that a
hundred human subjects have suffered in France plasters of this exceptional
project. Felix Kerboz, he survived this slaughter gloriously despite the sarcasm
of French opinion, unanimous in condemning what it called the "school of
programmed death." A British team is about to embark in turn in this adventure.
Stay tuned, therefore, in our columns.
Journal of Tokyo: IN SEARCH OF HIS ANCESTORS
A man wanted at all costs to go in search of his ancestors. A Westerner named
Felix Kerboz tried to join his ancestors
133
by committing suicide to potassium chloride, produces particularly toxic. He
woke up twenty minutes later, absolutely unscathed. Japanese researchers are now
trying to answer the most daring questions: can we visit the land of our
ancestors (and possibly photograph) just like any other tourist region of the
Earth?
Journal of New York: SACRED FRENCH
A small artisan French research team embarked on a bizarre experience: poison
himself to visit the afterlife. In recent weeks, French, informed about the
project, jeered their president, Jean Lucinder, in being accused of a serial
killer, the project under his patronage that caused a hundred victims before of
success. As for inventive researchers, they were threatened with legal action as
it is common in France, scientists have wings cut through red tape. (This is the
reason also why the French best scientists are accustomed to emigrate to the
United States where they can ceuvrer in peace to their future Nobel Prize.) This

72

time, four brave citizens managed àprouver the value of their work to a nation
and even hostile experts, and that before the cameras of international
television, present to testify that Felix Kerboz left for the mainland of the
dead and returned without damage. He is a former criminal, sentenced to life
imprisonment and then pardoned in recognition of this achievement, which is now
entering a self-made man's career. Several US companies have already offered
considerable sums to his own character he plays in a big budget movie. He has
not yet given his answer but we already think àCarol Turkson for the role of the
nurse and Amandine Fred O'Bannon to that of French President Lucinder. Coming
soon to your screens.
Journal of Rome: POPE FURIOUS
The French having made up his mind to conquer the continent of the dead, the
Pope said he was outraged that science seeks àoutrepasser his rights. "Death
belongs to God and God speaks through the voice of the Vatican", said the Pope,
adding "We can not encourage these shipments people in the afterlife.
134
We urge the French authorities to contact the Archbishop of Paris before any new
shipment of this type. "A Papal Bull is expected from one moment to the next.
Journal de Madrid: THE CASE LUCINDER
The President of the French Republic, Mr. Jean Lucinder, spent several weeks in
his country to a perfect madman. But it now turns out to be a particularly
enlightened mind we should perhaps follow the example. Certainly Lucinder often
lacked humor and never showed much compassion AGAINST nations in difficulty.
Besides, we have already criticized in our columns its protectionist policy and
shortsighted. We bear witness therefore that more admiration for the great
purpose he kept in total secrecy: the conquest of the continent from the dead!
Against all expectations, the French guinea pig Kerboz Felix managed to visit
the Ultimate Continent and back. Our government thinks launch a program of study
that will seek Amieux understand this phenomenon.
Berlin Diary: A DIVERSION OF OPERATION
The French are definitely resourceful. While their economy is in trouble, that
strikes succeed the hostile demonstrations, they vainly seeking to stem the
spread of drugs and the waves of illegal immigration, their president, Jean
Lucinder, tries to divert minds of the crisis by engaging in experiments on
death. It would have reached, say, to send a man into the afterlife. A team of
German experts will soon verify this dubious experience.
Journal of Beijing: DEATH ULTIMATE COLONY
Green light for the conquest of the continent from the dead. As in the days of
gunboat diplomacy, the major powers do not hide their colonial appetites. In
recent days and despite the discretion and denials surrounding their manceuvres,
American experts, English, German, Italian and Japanese undertook to build
thanatodromes. From reliable sources, we learned that the French Félix Kerboz
has already reached a kind of zero, invisible and impossible to overcome. This
border-limit would be located coma over twenty minutes.
135
86-AFTER VICTORY
More doubt. The scientific community, the public and the press hailed the
project's success "Paradise". The committee of experts, came to the convention
center to overwhelm us, gave a report to Parliament rather acknowledging our

73

merit and seriously.
No one dared to speak the "school of programmed death" or "presidential grave."
"What is death? What is death? What is death? What is death? What is death? What
death? ... "
I could write this sentence twenty pages long. We need at least that to restore
the degree of eagerness to know within me.
When we do not know, we do not ask too many questions, but when we begin to have
an initial explanation, we want to know all asset prices, understand everything.
Death had become a mystery within reach of my brain and my brain wanted more
information.
The fact of having approached, almost controlled, should have reassured me.
"Death, that's it. A country where you can make a return trip!" Hercules
precursor, had already visited in Hell to face Cerberus. Why not us?
Raoul had pulled it off, I was now tormented by the desire to know what happened
to the men after their death. What would happen to me, to me, when this was
over? After all, if life was a soap opera, so know when the last episode would
end.
For my part, I was still in shock. The questions were multiplying in my head.
The man he could, by dint of imagination and belief, conquer all dimensions?
What were its limitations? And above all, what was it that death, death,
death? ...
President Lucinder unites us in conference at the Elysee. He welcomed us in his
work room, place stuffed with computers and monitors, almost austere, very far
in any case the splendid ceremonial office where he received his official
visitors usually in luxury Louis XV.
The Head of State explained to us that we should now go into overdrive. We had
finished with the skeptics. We were now facing new opponents: the
136
copiers. Indeed, as the price of our glory throughout the world, were built of
thanatodromes.
- No way to be overtaken by the Americans or the Japanese. It has already been
in aviation, he railed. The Wright brothers claimed to have manufactured the
first aircraft while we all know that the first to have put a point was Clément
Ader! You managed take-off, beware, there certainly will claim you have
overtaken in the afterlife.
After our victory at the convention center, found a large audience, I imagine
some obscure evil foreign team to challenge us with the primacy of research.
In protest.
- We have the precise chemical formula of the booster, a "champion" to present
to the face of the world, we even invented the vocabulary of travel between the
two worlds. Our historical precedent is unquestionable and our lead so great
that others will take time to catch up.
Lucinder raised his arms to heaven.
- Do you think! While our members quibble about our loans, American universities
put considerable sums available to their researchers. And they will not work in
the shallows of a prison, them! With a dentist's chair more worthy of a museum
room than a place of experimentation! No, they will swim in luxury, with all the
most modern equipment in the world! Besides, we will also move to the next
level. I see only one way to support yourself: Razorbak professor, Dr. Finch,

74

and Mr. Felix miss Ballus Kerboz, you are now directly linked to the Presidency.
I appoint you top government officials.
that.
Raoul.
It was Conrad who was going to do a head when I would declare him
- Perfect. We can improve our lab, congratulated
Lucinder interrupted
- Oh no, Razorbak over yourself! This is international competition it is. Our
country has to hold his position in the world. In addition, we no longer have
any reason to hide. On the contrary, we must operate in the open. We will build
a new thanatodrome, more modern and more spacious. Must
137
build a "historic" place. A new triumphal arch. The triumphal arch of the
conquerors of death.
Like many politicians, Lucinder intoxicated with his own words. At the same
time, he enjoyed galvanize a crowd that he considered his. We constituted his
elite troops, staff explorers commando desperate to help àentrer in history.
Yet we did not share the same ambitions. If he was looking for immortality, we,
we were looking for adventure and wanted to solve a mystery as old as humanity
itself.
An usher, gold necklace around his neck, opened the door noisily. The hearing
was over. Other cases called President. It was time for us to move.
- Our specialized services to keep me aware of the progress of our opponents, he
said (and in parting, he added :) And now, miss, gentlemen, and confidence to
work!
87-JEWISH PHILOSOPHY
"Life accustomed us to death with sleep
Life warns us that there is another life through dreams. "
Eliphas Levi.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
88-FAMILY AFFAIR
After the excitement of the convention center, I spent a week alone in my
apartment. I found that loneliness is easier àsupporter in euphoria in defeat
but yet I suffered no less. All in all, I expected what? A hordes of fans
watching my comings and goings at the bottom of the building? I had always been
Michael Pinson, one man and photograph in the press or not, Michael Pinson, one
man I was staying.
As an epitaph, I imagined great on my tombstone, "Here lies Michael Pinson,
simple and alone as everyone else."
I consoled myself with white port and consecrated hours replaying old mythology
books.
138
Tired of these often tedious texts, I leafed through a few random magazines. All
were filled with these items on the happiness of so beautiful and so smiling
actors who marry and are mistaken as I snaps his fingers. Every page spread
obscene image of a radiant couple happiness of marriage or childbirth. The hacks
ensured they were awesome, unique, award-winning, still modest, casual and

75

constantly nice. They supported the fight against polio, they adopted from third
world children, they spoke of love as the only irreplaceable value, they
presented their new friends, great and smiling too. Les Thanatonautes were all
happy now. Felix was a star, Raoul found his way to his father, President
Lucinder was famous, Amanda thought he could save men, and me?
I was aimless. One to talk to, someone to share my pain and my joy mixed.
Again, I felt like howling at the moon like coyotes desert. Aouuuuuu! I stopped
as soon as the neighbors were manifested. I forced myself to read each article
talking rage of happiness actors, artists and politicians.
It was to be resumed. I was too impatient.
He was 30 and 10 h, at that moment, I could not help me to make a wish. That of
being surrounded by humans talk with.
- The company Hi!
No luck, it was my mother and my brother. They threw themselves on
I.
- My boy, my little one, I am so proud of you. I always knew you would succeed!
A mother feels that ...
- Congratulations, bro, for a good shot it was a good move!
They took possession of my couch as if they were at home and my brother laid
hands on what I had white port.
Conrad then proceeded to tell me about my financial interests should be me now
manage with the help of a knowledgeable advisor. My mother pointed out that with
the reputation that was now mine, I could probably marry a beautiful actress or
a high flying heiress. She had already cut articles in magazines on several
charming young people who might suit me.
- All women will fall at your feet, she said, the greedy eye.
- But is that ... I already have a girlfriend, I say to all
139
chance, all my desire to protect me from his cumbersome solicitude.
My mother was angry immediately
- What! What! she blurted. You have a girlfriend and the caches you to your
mother!
- Because ...
- I guess who it is, jubilant Conrad. The friend of Michael, it is the nurse!
The beautiful blonde with small chick eyes marine who was close to you on the
set of convention center! Hat, bro, she looks like Grace Kelly but better. It's
funny, though. From the way she threw herself into the arms of your guinea pig,
I would have thought she was in love!
As usual, my brother had ruined the nail on my most egregious weakness and he
enjoyed plunge the knife in the wound. My mother silenced
- A nurse? Why not? There are no stupid job. When did you marry? I would be
really happy to see you married. You really need a woman to put order in your
life. Looks like you're dowdy! You will catch cold if you do not cover yourself
enough. Besides, surely you eat all the time in the restaurant. Restaurants,
they save as much as possible about customers, they only serve as remains and
last category of products. I hope you never eat ground meat?
- I know, Mom, I know, I admitted in an effort to contain the avalanche.
- So much the better. Your nurse will teach you to feed you and clothe ATE.
Listen to me, at least. Do not start to play the proud pretext that saw you on
TV!
- No, Mom, I said.
- No what?
- No, I do not play them proud.
- Oh, I warn you, you will not begin to snub us because you became an
international star! None of that with us, huh?
Rather than entering an empty capitulate debate! Conrad sneered, mocking, with
what he took for submission.
Leafing through books laid on my coffee table, he exclaimed

76

- Well, you give in mystical literature now?
- I read what I like and I have accounts to anyone, 'I énervai.
140
I was willing to bow to my mother but to bow before Conrad was too much ask.
He mumbled
- The Popol Vuh or Book of Events is a grimoire sorcerer?
I snatched the valuable work of the hands.
- This is the bible of Maya Quiche Indians of Mexico, I spat in his face.
- Oh yes! And this: I Ching, the Book of Changes, and then it, the Bardo Thodol,
the Book of the Dead. And this one, the Ramayana. Say, there is everything here.
All that's missing you more than the Kama Sutra!
- Conrad, if you came to provoke me, get the hell out before I break your face!
Returns show off with your money, your cars and your wives and leave me in
peace!
- The peace of the graveyard! Conrad crooned.
I camest, fists forward, when my mother interjected.
- Do not talk to your brother like that. Him, he gave me that satisfaction. He,
he married, he gave me grandchildren. He did nothing wrong! Him, he does not
play the proud because it happened Ala television.
What hair pulling with an oyster knife! I breathed slowly to regain my
composure.
- If you are coming for exasperate me, I prefer not to keep you longer. You were
afraid that I'm happy? You wanted to ruin my fun?
My mother had noticed that, as is my habit, I had left my shirt opened the first
button to be more comfortable and, as usual, she hastened to close it, pinching
my neck in passing . She took advantage of what I was suffocating monopoly to
resume the conversation.
- How dare you speak to us in that tone? she was indignant. We have always
encouraged you. Even if you spent your time in cemeteries with àtraîner
Razorbak, I never made you reproach, and yet I know many mothers who have not
allowed their children to attend small nuts.
- Raoul is not crazy!
- It is still a bit special, and you will admit ...
- Talking about me?
One of these days, I would have to think of laying down solid locks
on my door. We came here as in a mill. Locks, a ceilleton, a bell, and good
privacy!
Meanwhile, so what if Raoul had heard the disparaging my mother! He too did not
arise unexpectedly.
- Hello, Raoul, I say coldly.
- Yes, Professor Razorbak, admitted my brother, respect full voice, we were just
talking about you. We believe that, as you are now rich and famous, you need a
financial advisor to ensure your interests. After all, both of you and the girl
you train like a rock band. You need an impresario, someone who manages your
image, which takes care of your contracts, which ...
I expected that Raoul dryly fly wag it. No, he listened carefully.
- Your brother? he asked.
- Yes, I admitted ruefully.
- And I'm his mother! trumpeted proudly said progenitor.
Raoul made land one of his hands on his chin.
- He has ideas, your brother, he admitted, it is true that we will have to
manage our new thanatodrome at the end.
Conrad puffed up, saying its projects
- Exactly, I thought it would be interesting also to open a gift shop next to
your new thanatodrome. T-shirts We could sell it as one.
"Dying is our business", could be read on the one he took from his pocket.
I was appalled. Not Raoul. He examined the cloth.
- Good idea! It shrinks in the wash?

77

- No. Guaranteed colorfast, I checked, my mother said.
Raoul, willing to trade away our sacred Temple of projects to merchants? J e did
not believe it.
- More ...
He imposed silence on me.
- Your brother is right, Michael. A shop would increase awareness of our work to
establish our brand image among the general public.
- And I will be your press agent! exclaimed my tender mother. And like that, I
could see Michael more often. I'll take care of him better.
I rubbed my eyes. No, I was not dreaming. We had
142
started trying to pierce the mysteries of death, and thus change lives, change
the world, change humanity ... And here we find ourselves in organizing the
opening of a store "memories thana" . We really lived a wonderful time! Perhaps
that if Jesus Christ returned to earth, he too would have to popularize its
message, "Love one another", on purple shirts. And "Happy the simple-minded, the
kingdom of heaven belongs to them", upon white hoodies 70% cotton 30% acrylic
wash with warm water. It would suit Conrad.
I imagined even Lao Tzu popularized in a gadget shop. "He who knows does not
speak. He who speaks does not know." A string bikini thunder!
Finally, while Raoul, my friend Professor Raoul Razorbak, there was nothing
wrong, who was I to oppose it?
My brother would open the store, second-hand clothes to command and shoddy
wholesale Taiwan and my mother would take the shop.
I shrugged, telling myself that at least ridicule, he did not kill anyone.
- And your nurse, when do you present to me? my mother took me to complete.
89 AUSTRALIAN -MYTHOLOGIE
The mythology of Australian Aborigines evokes Numbakulla, the "Ever-Existent,"
from nothing. Numbakulla is coming from nowhere suddenly appeared on the bare
ground. It heads north and mountains, rivers, incidentally plants and animals
are born in its path.
While walking, he spreads the spirit-children who are all immortal souls from
her body. In a cave, he carves sacred signs called tjurungas, with the power to
emit energy. The First Ancestor was born from the union of a Tjurunga and childmind.
Other ancestors were then generated in the same way and are responsible for
educating the first men.
One day Numbakulla planted a pole in the middle of a field. He smeared blood
before climbing and then motioned to the First Ancestor to join him. But the
blood that rendered the too slippery pole, grandfather hush on the floor.
143
Numbakulla was therefore only reach the sky and pulled the post behind him.
More we never saw him again.
Men know since immortality eluded them àjamais. The sacred pole remains the axis
around which revolves icibas order, as willed Numbakulla.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
90 - THE DES BUTTES-CHAUMONT THANATODROME
Thanks to special credits of the Presidency of the Republic, we bâtîmes a superb
thanatodrome. It was not a triumphal arch but a small building of modern
appearance, in a quiet area. We had carefully chosen the location. It was
located Botzaris Street, at the top of Buttes-Chaumont.
Raoul had found it amusing to study death near the site where once sat the
gibbet of Montfaucon, memory loss. There were hanged, on behalf of the king,

78

innocent and brigands of the Middle Ages.
In two months, everything was ready.
We had seven floors overlooking the ButtesChaumont center. The first four floors
included twelve small apartments, three increments. We cassâmes walls at higher
levels. We settled into a laboratory of 220 square meters on the fifth and a
bathroom off of the same dimensions in the sixth. The seventh floor was
converted into a penthouse, fully enclosed by a translucent glass roof in
winter, outdoor terrace in summer.
Amandine converted it with a lot of green plants a reception room to his liking.
At this colonial decor, they added a white Steinway piano and a black bar. The
place was really the biggest chic!
At the bottom of the building, a very sober plate was "Thanatodrome of Paris"
and, in smaller letters, "Access reserved for staff." Raoul had proposed that
also adds: "Attention Thanatonautes of flight", as it says "Attention runways"
near airports. The idea we had lots of fun.
The President inaugurated the classically Lucinder building
144
smashing a bottle on his door. Real champagne, this time, not sparkling. We do
not skimp.
A presentation evening was held in the penthouse, intends to press. The head of
state delivered a short speech congratulating us for our efforts and encouraging
us to maintain the lead in the race to conquer the "Ultimate Continent".
Standing on a dais surrounded by succulents, sadly enumerated the colonies lost
by France: Canada, India, West Africa, only because she had failed to conserve
the lead.
- This time, we will remain the first, he concluded forcefully.
Then, under the flashes of reporters, he decorated the four of us a distinction
he had imagined specifically for us
thanatonautique the Legion of Honor. The medal was a man with angel wings
barreling toward a circle of fire.
Perhaps, at this very moment when we warmed us to the heat of success and fame,
she was death contemplating us from on high, like piranhas fun to consider from
the muddy river the children of a lake village in the process of making a
fortune with diving boards patched.
I chased those thoughts and returned to the noisy atmosphere of our reception.
The journalist RTVL was still there, he asked questions to Amandine but it
seemed reluctant to answer. Amandine dumb. We had to look at it, that's all. But
this reporter did not know to look. He asked questions and answers was not
listening, he was filming without seeing. A force to use artificial sense of the
microphone and the camera, it had atrophied his natural senses. But Amanda was
so beautiful. She wore that night a black lamé sheath but I avoided his navy
blue eyes that attracted me like two sinkholes.
My mother took advantage of a moment's respite from RTV1 reporter for the
watering of answers to questions that he had not thought to ask ALUI. "Yes, a
thanatonautique store would open," "Yes, this store would offer T-shirts and
gadgets reminiscent thanatonautiques experiences", "No, there would be no sales
before summer."
The president continued his spiel on the platform, gargling is its own findings.
- This badge, uttered Lucinder, brandishing his medal, is to reward those who
contribute to the progress of
145
thanatonautique, including our colleagues who will come here to work with us.
Good luck everyone!
Sacred Lucinder. He really was ready to do anything to have his name in the
history books. Being the president who had encouraged experiments death was not
enough. To be sure to make an impression in time and space, he had to invent his
medal as the "medal Lucinder" and thanatodrome. A place which, no doubt, would
one day name thanatodrome Lucinder like JF Kennedy or Charles de Gaulle

79

airports.
As for his idea to come here every Thanatonautes victorious, it would allow us
to not be overwhelmed by outsiders. Good game.
Je he took a toast.
91-TIBETAN MYTHOLOGIE
"Know yet
Apart from your hallucinations
There is no Lord judge of the dead
Neither demons
Neither victors of death, Majusri.
Understand it and be freed. N
Bardo Thodol, the Tibetan Book of the Dead.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
92 - WORK
The day after the official opening, we settled with arms and baggage in our
palace of death.
The President had planned private apartments for all of us. Over a multi-lab so
we can work at night. In fact, as we all experienced problems in the vicinity of
smear campaign that preceded the convention center sitting, we moved with joy in
this new environment.
I opted for a house on the third floor.
146
I then rejoined the laboratory a very Raoul tormented by the desire to rush the
president Lucinder.
- The Americans, the Japanese, the English ... It has only these words Ala
mouth. He understands nothing. This is a long term process. We can only advance
step by step, and surrounding us with utmost care, to boot.
I was surprised to see my friend moderator endorse such suit, he who had always
encouraged us to move forward in spite of all hazards.
- Do not confuse speed with haste.
First calm the ardor of Felix who wanted multiply flights.
Our thanatonaute had changed since his victory at the convention center. He gave
interview interview. He was constantly invited to the TV for games or debates
and, whatever the issue, he loved it.
After thirty years he was treated like a less-querien I understood this appetite
for revenge. A plastic surgeon had remodeled his face scarred. A renowned
ophthalmologist had managed to rid of these contact lenses that forced him
àcligner eyes. For his bald head, he had been using implants. The greatest
designers covered the clothes for advertising purposes. Beautiful and elegant,
Felix Kerboz embodied the perfect hero from death.
You could see it everywhere. It was all raw, all the openings, all the major
parties in nightclubs in fashion. Invite the only thanatonaute the world at his
table was a privilege disputed the most exclusive housewives. Felix had also
made it into the Guinness Book of Records as man known for having advanced the
furthest in the post-vital world. Among the most powerful eater cherry pits and
the largest beer drinker, there appeared dressed as Superman, alongside a
beautiful supermodel wielding a scythe.
Felix had really become very mundane.
On the one hand we were delighted, as this would make him back down here rather
than get caught up there by one knew what a temptation too. On the other, we
agacions perpetual delays inevitably engendered his sleepless nights. He
sometimes spent days recovering in bed rather than come to thanatodrome, his
office somehow. In addition, it was

80

147
so used to the admiration he lent only a distracted ear to our advice and our
work.
Still, Felix Kerboz preserved remains of conscientiousness. The first week of
our facility to ButtesChaumont he managed two more round trips.
He confirmed the existence of a wall "more coma and twenty minutes." A kind of
filmy membrane that he compared to a transparent and choosy.
"After this wall, the silver cord that holds the world and break the will no
longer want to turn around," he thought. All newspapers resumed the expression:
"comatic Wall". Some also called "wall of death" or even "Moloch 1", or "Moch 1"
in parallel with the wall of sound, Mach 1.
Moloch, it reminded me of Baal, the Phoenician god Carthaginian. During a trip
to Sidi Bou Said, Tunisia, I saw its representation. A large statue metal
hollow. They lit a fire in his belly. Sacrifice they threw children and virgins
in her gaping mouth.
Just down, on the ground floor, my mother had opened his shop and sold as agreed
t-shirts, key chains and caps. His shop was simply called "Aux conquerors of
death".
It contained all kinds of miscellaneous items: mugs of beer that read: "Dying is
our business." An inscription in bold letters was part of all the other gadgets
"Ash, you return to the ashes" on ash trays; "The last kills" on watches;
"Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed" on toilet
paper; "I am dying and I like it" on candles; "Heaven does not wait" on kites.
There were also Petit Felix outfits, video tapes off at the convention center,
the perfect little boxes anesthetist thanatonaute with my picture.
It was a taste ..
Finally ... you choose your friends, you do not choose your family.
Fiche 93 POLICE
Message to the relevant departments
The thanatonautique movement is poised to take proportions impossible to curb
through the normal channels of intervention. The thanatonauti148
that has become a fact of life. Failing possibility of action on the movement
itself, however we can bench the main actors (or identification cards) including
Raoul Razorbak Michael Pinson and Amandine Ballus. Feel dangerous to let them
work longer. They could raise serious disorders. Ask permission to act.
Response services concerned
Advise to wait and see. Too early to intervene.
94-THEOLOGICAL PROBLEM
- It's fine, your "comatic wall", but if you do not offer a logical explanation
to the public, it will soon take you for charlatans, and me too by the bargain!
In his office full of computer s and monitors, the president Lucinder was very
excited. He was right: the speech translating experience is often more important
than the experience itself. Pasteur was also not in his private time to
interpret the results before they have really checked. We made a fantastic
discovery. To us to explain the concept to the public.
The long hands of Raoul lit one of his cigarettes biddies. He blew the smoke
thoughtfully before declaring
- I may be interpreted to offer your audience.
The President himself comfortable in his chair àroulettes. It triggered the
automatic small back massage system.
- I'm listening, he said sympathetically.
Raoul inhaled and exhaled with pleasure àl'eucalyptus a smoke ring.

81

- The first explanation yardstick that there would be: death is a biological
regression. In a "classic death" after the neo-cortex is blown, the
consciousness falls into the rhinencephalon and at this point we can observe an
NDE. There are still chemical relationships between the neo-cortex and
rhinencephalon, so that people can remember that tunnel. Then the consciousness
falls into the reptilian brain. There is still the relationship between the
neocortex
149
and rhinencephalon, but between the neocortex and the reptilian brain. It is
therefore more stores. Nobody told this phase. By cons, it has stimulated the
reptilian brain, causing dreams, hallucinations, outdoor shows to oneself with
Lilliputian characters. Consciousness is then the reptilian brain cells and
cells to the DNA core. DNA is made from the beginning of the world, so at that
time we perceive, in a kind of second state of consciousness, the original
world.
Lucinder reached up and turned to me.
- I did not understand. And you, Michael, you have an interpretation?
- A recent theory speaks of "tachyon". These are all new particles that just
discovered atomic accelerator in Saclay. Tachyons have an extraordinary property
they are faster than light. This could be what is in the field of consciousness.
When, in the morning, we are a little vasouillard, it seems that it is the
tachyon of consciousness that are not yet back to our skin. Tachyon theorists
think it is a particle that has no past and no future. It could be that compose
tachyon "matter" of the soul.
Lucinder stroked his dog.
- It is attractive, your history of consciousness particles, but the word
"tachyon" does not seem very media. And enough of this scientific gibberish.
That will shave everyone. You, Raoul, I think you are interested in mystics.
What is the mystique that gives the most "credible" version?
- Well, according to the Bardo Thodol, the Tibetan Book of the Dead, we would
actually consists of three bodies.
- You are joking? You want me to tell that to my constituents? gasped the head
of state.
- I repeat the assertions of the Bardo. So, we have three bodies. The first is
called "physical body." It is made of matter, solid, physical and gas, all our
body component. Connected to the five senses, it provides us all our visual
perceptions, auditory, sensory, etc. Upon death, matter decays and crumbles into
dust. The second body is the "vital body". It is a magnetic envelope that
surrounds the physical body and that determines the lines of force and the lines
of weakness. Here lie the energy meridians which speak Chinese and Indian yogis
indicated by chakras. Here our travels
150
natural energy, that we issue and that we receive from the outside. This energy,
Indians call it Prana and the Chinese Ki.
Vercingetorix yawned, releasing a trickle of drool. I noticed only when he was
at least curious that a president who thought he was Caesar Vercingetorix has
named his dog. Dominate a labrador, poor victory!
Facing the mystical-scientific discourse of my friend, the pragmatic elected by
the people seemed uncomfortable.
- Continue! intima there though.
- From our "vital body" depends our reach, our vibrations, our charism. Anything
that makes that pleases or displeases you people for no apparent reason. In
addition, the disease is not altogether an imbalance between our physical body
and our vital body. Hence the Chinese acupuncture, which releases the energy at
certain points and circulated in other ...
Physical body, vital body ... I guessed the thoughts of Lucinder. Should we get
rid of it as soon mad scientist now we were done with the dirty work and replace
it with any scientific luminary more "presentable"?

82

For a moment, his eyes wandered from the President on me as a possible
successor. After all, I was on the pace from the start and my mind still seemed
healthy.
All his explanations, Raoul perceived not the doubts of his interlocutor.
Undaunted, he continued
- Descartes, however, did not mean anything by declaring
"The difference between the body and the soul is that the body is divisible,
while the soul is indivisible." Like what all fits together ... Well, it can
happen that vital body and physical body from separating .
- Under what circumstances?
- Um, under the influence of drugs, for example, or when vanishes, we experience
an orgasm, or that undergoes a very strong psychological trauma.
- Or if you find yourself immersed in a coma?
- Exactly. My father, who has worked on many questions, estimated that some
mediums and mystics are perfectly capable of deliberately split their vital body
of their physical body. He was professor of philosophy but he had a very
scientific approach to things ... He said it would be like getting rid of a
transparent glove stuck to our skin.
The President patted his dog.
- I also found texts written by a Professor Rupert Sheldrake in the late
twentieth century. This physicist asserted that objects possessed independent
forms of their material. The future tree was already registered in the seed, the
old man was buried in the fetus and forms circulated such mobile databases.
Sheldrake had provided proof of the existence of these immaterial forms provided
without giving a convincing explanation. An electromagnetic phenomenon, perhaps?
After all, we all have our own electromagnetic footprint. This energy is only if
we feel by bringing the palms of our hands. Yet it is there, little ball that we
sometimes perceive as a little sun by taking our hands to face, or by touching
the skin of a stranger and suddenly receiving as an electric shock. We stroked
an invisible envelope. In fact, perhaps we have touched a soul!
Lucinder s'impatienta
- And the third body? he asked.
95 -INTERVIEW
Read in the women's magazine.
MF: The soul, you say?
KERBOZ: Yes. It's like an invisible glove that covers us and who removes.
MF: Be more specific.
KERBOZ: There, my body looks like a transparent cloud, filled with reflections
of different colors. It follows the contour of my normal body but it has neither
weight nor consistency and moves as fast as he wants. It can pass through
objects as the objects can pass through.
MF: This is an ectoplasm?
KERBOZ: I do not know what ectoplasm. I speak of my body became transparent.
Humans can not see, he can not communicate with them. However, it may refer the
thoughts of the living. What a strange feeling!
MF: And to travel?
KERBOZ: We travel at the speed of thought. When I am transparent [mimicking a
swimming movement], I can
152
cross like that. However, I remain connected to my physical body by a silver
cord, a kind of rope light and elastic security.
MF: And it's nice to fly with his "transparent body"?
KERBOZ: Yes. One has the impression of not having limits. No longer afraid of
injury or fatigue. It's only a thought in suspension, able to move at the speed
of ideas.
MF: You still have a lot of courage to then regain its pain body!
KERBOZ: Right. Especially when you have an ingrown toenail!

83

96-JAPANESE PHILOSOPHY
"Death is the way of the samurai. If you have to choose between death and life,
again opts for death. Nothing is more simple. Gather your courage and do it.
According to some, to die without accomplishing its mission would be vain. This
is an infringement samurai ethics, which betrays the calculating mind arrogant
Osaka merchants.
In such a situation, it becomes almost impossible to make the right choice. We
all prefer to live.
Nothing is more natural than to seek a reason then to survive. But those who
choose to continue to live as he failed ASA mission that one will incur the
contempt deserve cowards and miserable. "
Hagakure, the samurai code of honor, the seventeenth century.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
97-MIND BODY
President Lucinder focused on the words of Professor Razorbak. Myself, I was
once again impressed by my friend. Raoul knew so much! How many volumes had he
stored in his skull?
When you listen to Raoul, we say that a good library is all the gurus and all
Eastern sages of the world!
153
- Three bodies, you said, went Lucinder. The physical body, the vital body,
then?
- The mental body. It provides us with our thoughts, our ideas, our
consciousness. The mental body somatizes and imbalance during the energies of
the vital body. It was he who made me speak to you right now. It analyzes and
synthesizes all the information from our senses and gives them an intellectual
meaning. It is the mind body falling in love, laughing and crying.
The Head of State was now fascinated.
- Physical body, vital body, mental body. Certainly not simple, but that would
explain why we won the afterlife while pretending sleep!
98 - CANDLELIGHT DINNER
We discovered thanatodrome in front of a small Thai restaurant which gradually
became our canteen. It was held by Mr Lambert, a pure Thai Chiang Mai,
specialist fried noodles with basil. As we discussed with Amandine and Felix our
private interview with the President, and the new objectives of the
thanatonautique, a boy stuck to our table.
- You are Mr. Felix Kerboz? he asked Felix.
Our hero nodded, smug, always happy to be recognized.
The child asked for an autograph, and we were immediately surrounded by a mass
of admirers, all swearing that Felix was even more beautiful in reality than on
television.
I paid the bill in haste and we smote retreat.
Felix, he would gladly have lingered. It shone in the sun compliments. He signed
his name on the menus, paper towels, tickets, restaurants and eyes sparkling
with happiness. He finally felt loved.
99 - KENYAN MYTHOLOGIE
For the Bantu, originally, man was immortal. To confirm it, God first dispatched
a chameleon. Then, on reflection, God changed his mind and ordered a second
messenger, a bird this time to inform him that, not at all, the man had to die.

84

154
The chameleon had happened long before the bird. Alas, he stuttered and had not
yet completed to deliver his message to men. The bird had therefore no
difficulty in knowing his: men die and never come back to earth in a form
similar to that taken in a previous life.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
100 VA -FÉLIX TOO FAR
A month after the inauguration of the thanatodrome ButtesChaumont, Amandine
solemnly announced his engagement to Felix. I, poor fool that I was, I had not
seen or I had nothing wanted to see.
We had talked about yet Amandine, Raoul and me. We had agreed on the fact that,
to please this girl, the only way was to die. There was only thanatonaute to
interest. Still, what could she find this crude thick Felix? Okay, he was
famous, and after? In any case, once again our mysterious Amandine escaped me
completely.
When the couple moved, I admit I felt a twinge of sadness. I tried not to let
jealousy dominate my friendship.
Side work, Felix had nice shout all over the news that soon would cross Moch 1,
it did not succeed yet. Worse, he hesitated increasingly to take off. Now he
Amandine and had become the darling of all Paris, he had no desire to plunge
into risky artificial comas.
We could not let stand longer our hopes on this unique and whimsical
thanatonaute. We had to rebuild as soon as a stable. Felix was the first
conviction. Just in case, we passed an ad in the daily
"Thanatodrome of Paris is looking for volunteers.
We thought the candidates leap would be counted on the fingers of one hand.
Surprise: more than a thousand hotheads presented themselves. The selection was
draconian. Raoul, Amanda, Felix and I, we spent literally grilling. From all of
us, Felix was the fiercest examiner. Obviously, he knew well the risks and
preferred to cool these enthusiastic rather than
155
advise them: "Go you sending in the air-blowing You'll like this!"
High-level athletes and movie stunt proved best equipped to cross our selection
tests. These boys were familiar with their bodies and, moreover, they knew what
it was like to take risks to near-death. Daredevil but not too much!
For second official thanatonaute, we chose jeans Bresson. This experienced stunt
took off and landed with ease. He approached Moch 1 as far but from the
description he made Felix himself admitted that he had succeeded.
Bresson reached "coma over eighteen minutes." Three other Thanatonautes then
stopped at "coma over seventeen minutes." We still had not pushed the boundaries
of Terra incognita placed "more coma twenty-one minutes," but we now know
perfectly what was around: large and multicolored swirling gas corridor.
For these four relative success, we knew twenty-three failures. We multiplied
the precautions and yet young and too eager boiling had passed between the
meshes of our net. We affinâmes even more our battery selection tests. It was
important to select only people mature enough and have a large enough strength
of character to resist the lure of the deadly light.
Outside hast thou seen me, who sought only to impress their friends or
girlfriends got to our noble brotherhood! Outside the desperate, who regarded
thanatonautique like the latest in suicide! Out with the bad-in-leurpeau, who
wanted to know if there was better than here! A good thanatonaute is a happy
man, healthy in body and mind, and who would have everything to lose by dying.
We finally select preferably fathers of large families!
By dint of experience, we have still now several certainties
1. The body remained on site. Only the soul traveling.
2. In escaping, the soul took the form of a whitish ectoplasm that pass through

85

all the materials and steal at least at the speed of light.
156
3. At the time of death, the ectoplasm rose into the sky to join a blue funnel
ending with a light.
4. ectoplasm was connected to the physical body by a silver cord.
5. If the cord was cut, everything back to life became impossible.
6. A "more coma and twenty minutes," there was a wall.
Science journalists divulged few details and we began to count thousands
handymen who attempted takeoff boosters by using more or less craft. Some
shootaient thiopental, other chloride. But they did not know the right doses.
Every week brought its share of accident victims thanatonautique. Some are sent
into the afterlife with barbiturates and even weed killer. Erotomaniacs were
using the orgasm.
Everything was good as a fuel: red wine, hallucinogenic mushrooms, vodka,
cocaine, bungee jumping, adulterated sea fruits, electric shock ... In short,
everything that a human being could disconnect from the reality! Nothing was
more fashionable than "thanatonauter". "You're not even décorporer damn you"
became the most banal insults. It implied that the individual was a physical
body. He was not even able to give expression to his vital body or his mental
body.
To stop the carnage, President Lucinder promulgated a law punishing heavy prison
sentences anyone trying to practice thanatonautique outside the official
confines of Thanatodrome of Paris.
After a period of going green,
Felix decided to start his own record àl'assaut. Several times he summoned
journalists and cameras, but despite repeated attempts he failed to cross Moch
1. A force, the press grew weary. At each of his return among the living, Felix
saw shrink the crowd of his admirers. In order not to discourage it altogether,
Amandine, Raoul and I went up to pay extras to fill the press box. Felix was not
fooled: he had learned to know who was who in the world of media.
As it became increasingly sad and melancholy, we conseillâmes him to retire.
After all, he had already done enough for the development of the
thanatonautique. But he did not budge, he
157
will retire after having exceeded 1. This turned Moch had the idea fixed home.
101-Vedic Mythology
Advance ahead by ancient paths where are gone my forefathers! The two kings,
Yoma and god Varuna, who delight in the funerary ritual, you see them.
Rig-Veda X, 14
Extract of the thesis! .a Death Unknown this, by Francis Razorbak.
102 - A LITTLE REST
Suddenly everything went wrong. Felix became increasingly irritable. He put his
marriage Amandine indefinitely. Suspicious bruises informed us that he beat her.
Moreover, at night, splinters of their domestic scenes echoed into the
neighboring apartments.
Paying him his own greed, Felix Amandine accused of not wanting in that money.
It was true that he enjoyed excellent income, especially since President
Lucinder had allocated him a scholarship in thanatology. His interviews are
still negotiating a good price. He had hired a literary agent to sell his
memories àl'éditeur the highest bidder, lucrative contract to boot. My brother
consented him a percentage on all T-shirts bearing his image. Indeed, there was

86

enough to feed a big bank account!
Amandine wiped blows and insults but she clenched her teeth. His admiration for
the thanatonaute was strongest. It was only when Felix began to appear with
women of easy virtue that his stoicism cracked varnish. She came crying on my
shoulder.
I consoled my best. Since the first moment I was crazy in love, but I avoided
however to issue the slightest doubt about his fiancé. She would not forgive me
derogatory remarks she poured yet galore in the Thai restaurant Lambert.
158
Between two glasses of rice wine, mineral water gushed navy blue chasms.
- Pull yourself.
- It is so unfair. Seems to me he accuses of being unable to get past the first
wall of death. I am willing to help, but it would still he agrees to tell me
how.
- We must understand, 'I said.
She would not talk. Amandine, it was a whole world of things learned, hidden
things. The day that this girl would open the closets of his brain, surely we
would discover there quite a mess. For now, she preferred to accumulate and show
nothing. Only this crisis and these tears bore witness to a moment of weakness.
I offered to walk a little. An hour later, we met again in the cemetery of PèreLachaise.
- This is where I met Raoul.
- You are real friends, it's beautiful, Amandine sighed.
- When we were little, we'd get beaten up by beefy class.
She approached me imperceptibly.
- I think I do not want to marry Felix, she said.
- You're kidding, he did never recover.
- Do not worry. He has a court females that revolve around it. He will not long
remain alone. Felix was a virgin, I taught him what a woman. He visited love and
death simultaneously. Now he can stand on its own. I have been an initiator.
- Do you regret?
- No. But I know that we are not made to live together.
- You're wrong. Although Felix runs left and right, it is only you that he
really likes. You are so far above the others. You have a class that ...
She gave a little laugh miserable.
- Hey, it would not be you who'd be hitting on me?
My turn to close the lips on my secrets.
She pressed herself against me, confident, and we remained there in this cold
garden burials, not far from the grave of Nerval, àcontempler stars. Her little
heart was warm against my chest.
159
A gentle breeze sang in my ears. I would gladly have spent my life as well, my
nose buried in the golden fur of her hair.
On a brutal blow torch, a guard looking for vandals pulled me from my
enchantment us it from its torpor. She shook herself
- You're right, Michael. It is not necessary that I let myself be impressed by
some temporary quarrels or one-night. I am unfair to Felix and I will marry when
he wishes.
In the taxi home, we had no desire to speak neither one nor the other.
103 - mayhem
The next day at thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont, the atmosphere was stormy. Felix
had returned late drunk as usual, and in the company of a prostitute over the
market. They slept on the carpet after he vomited on the launch of the throne.
Arriving at dawn, Raoul had driven the girl before Amandine does surprise and
cleaned which was cleaned, helped by Jean Bresson.
Despite several cups of hot coffee, Felix still had a hangover.

87

- Do not make me the moral hell! You know who I am? The first thanatonaute the
world. Of The World. Cram you doing well in the skull. The others, they are only
assistants, junk sub-drivers.
Pure chance, I came upon simultaneously Amandine. Felix immediately stared at us
accusingly.
- And now our two lovebirds! If you think I have not understood your little game
is that you take me for king of idiots!
Raoul sighed in exasperation.
- The farm, Felix! I have bad news for us all. Fax fell this morning, the
British managed to reach Moch 1. They are to "coma more than nineteen minutes."
So, Felix, you stop your nonsense and goes back to work with the rigor of the
beginning. Sunrise, seven. Lunch: fruit and cereals. Complete check-up before
each
160
takeoff. Discipline and again discipline, only then will we avoid to move us
beyond by these types.
- On behalf of roasts, I doubt, stammered Felix. Tomorrow, I will succeed a
"coma over twenty-three" with onions.
- Oh yes! Meanwhile, first thanatonaute the world, returns sober up you home,
Raoul ordered curtly.
When he thus took his commanding tone, even Felix kept playing celebrities and
obeyed the undisputed leader of the team. Bending the spine, he made off with
one last burp.
The same evening, Raoul summoned us, Amandine and me in the penthouse. In this
tropical setting, among the succulents, our problems often seemed more
innocuous. But there was serious Raoul
- Felix is wrong, he says immediately. Beware them both. I know perfectly well
that there is nothing between you but he has put ideas in my head and it
disturbs!
I did not get into a painful debate Amandine, I hastened to create a diversion.
- Is it true what you told us this morning? Englishmen really touched Moch 1?
- It is quite formal. A Bill Graham Felix heels with his "coma more than
nineteen minutes." You understand that the situation is serious.
He lit his cigarette and resumed fine
- The stakes are too high. We are in a global race. There is no room for
mistakes. So Amanda, you'll make me the pleasure of having a frank explanation
with Felix. Show him that you support him, and that even if he's drunk, he did
not disgust you.
The applicant began by defending themselves.
- More more ...
- Do this for thanatonautique if you do not do it for love passi.
The young nurse accepted, with resignation. The next morning at dawn, the couple
explained. It was especially Felix, who apologized for his behavior the day
before. They decided to hold the wedding and we resumed flight procedures.
While Felix was on the throne of launch, Raoul conjured
be careful.
on
- Do not worry, old man. As
He settled himself boosters
- Six ... five ... four ...
Before closing his eyes, he
Amandine.
- Excuse me.

you say, "All
in the veins.
three ... two
still threw a

right straight on into the unknown."
Then the countdown is égrena.
... one. Takeoff.
short sentence in the direction of

104-CHINESE MYTHOLOGY
"In the distant island of Kou-chee live transparencies men, white as snow, fresh
like children. They do not consume any kind of food but suck the wind and drink

88

the dew. They walk in space, clouds serve as their chariots and horses of
dragons. They do not care diseases or monsoons. They are indifferent to
everything. A universal deluge will not overwhelm. A global avoid the fire. They
amounted au above all. They go up into the air as if they were climbing the
stairs and run into space on a bed as theft of their soul carriers everywhere. "
Chuang Tzu.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
105 -POINT FINAL
Felix never returned to this world. He never married and never told what he had
seen behind Moch 1. The Grim Reaper had not allowed to ask new banderillas.
Cerberus had devoured. Baal had snapped. The dead ... killed him.
Up there, he had taken off the mask of the Gorgon. He had perhaps seen the face
hidden behind the skeleton face of the woman in white satin. He had seen him and
he had not come to tell us what he saw. This had not been possible for him, or
he had perhaps not quite desired. The attractive light blue end of the corridor
had been stronger than our friendship. She was stronger than the celebrity,
stronger than
162
Amandine love, stronger than alcohol, prostitutes, the thanatonautique
adventure. Death kept his mystery.
There was some scandal sheets to imply that I had manipulated boosters to get
rid of a troublesome rival. I'm madly in love with our nurse, I would never have
been able so far to kill someone intentionally, especially not Felix.
But I wondered if Felix had not voluntarily missing. He knew he had succumbed to
the trappings of fame and he destroyed gradually. More than anything, I think
mostly he feared losing Amandine. Despite his sleeping around, he really loved
her, his first and only wife.
In the end, he felt unworthy of her. With prostitutes, he was ASON comfortable.
He found himself in his poor home environment. The beautiful and cultivated
Amandine impressed. Felix thought did not deserve as gentle and kind wife.
"Forgive me." Those were his last words to Amandine terrible.
The man of the year and even decade was given a state funeral. His physical body
was buried at Père-Lachaise in a magnificent marble mausoleum. A stele was
engraved: "Here lies the first thanatonaute the world."
106-AMERICAN INDIAN MYTHOLOGY
The Trickster or Coyote god, is one of the most curious characters from Indian
mythology in North America. At once cynical and murderous clown and bawdy god is
often represented with a huge penis and intestines wrapped around the body.
In Indian jokes, Coyote god is often the butt of the joke. The Great Spirit
usually allows him to commit all the follies and evil acts then he wants to fix
things. Most often Trickster thinks he is being hurt but in fact his actions
arouse effects exactly opposite to those he had planned. So, Trickster, the
little devil rival the Great Spirit, proves far less evil than had been
believed.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
163
107 - BILL GRAHAM
Jean Bresson was the second largest French thanatonaute. After the disappearance
of Felix Kerboz, he was inspired by the security procedures he had developed for
his film stunts before attempting a new leap.

89

He thus had the idea to provide the flight of chair of an electronic timer
enabling instant feedback. It operated in the manner of a seat belt. Before
takeoff, the thanatonaute was programming the timer for example to "coma more
than twenty minutes." This then triggered on time a small electric shock that
forced to retract the cord abruptly and therefore the àramener thanatonaute on
earth.
Jean Bresson was a true professional. He indicated on the map precisely the area
that it was then reported extremely accurate sketch of his observations.
I took advantage of this reliable driver to try to improve the formula boosters.
I Testai a new process.
Instead of pouring of a sudden the narcotic, he was sent at lower dose and
continuously. I was using Propofol (100 micrograms per kilogram per minute)
associated with morphine and a gas (desflurane, between 5 and 10% at first, but
I got better results with isoflurane between 5 and 15 %). Finally, to stabilize
the organic activity, Valium derivative: the Hypnovel (0.01 mg / kg). These new
tools made them a little safer takeoffs.
We were now convinced that anyone could get out of his body and engage in
disembodiment. Matter of dosage. But Jean Bresson helluva fine all my
concoctions.
He walked at their own pace. He explored "coma over eighteen minutes and twenty
seconds," "coma over eighteen minutes and thirty-eight seconds", "coma over
nineteen minutes and ten seconds." He treated his weight training, diet and
studied his biological rhythms. It took into account all factors that may
influence a disembodiment, including room temperature. (Best takeoffs are
effectuèrent to heat 21 ° C, with humidity below the average.)
His takeoffs were spotless. He carefully checked its boosters and focused for
long minutes on the goal àatteindre accordance with our maps.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
164
We were waiting for his return eyes on the dials electrocardiograms and
electroencephalograms. Then the timer began to move and control gear warned
about his imminent arrival.
- Six, five, four, three, two, one! Landing.
Jean Bresson was meticulous and methodical. Step by step, with rigor and
discipline, he progressed to the mainland of the dead. He refused any press
interview. He had renounced all sentimental life to devote himself entirely to
his work. Every day he recorded his progress in a notebook, and a small
calculator to decide a reasonable goal for the next day.
Beyond the Channel, Bill Graham appeared with an even temper. He had already
reached "coma more than nineteen minutes and twenty-three seconds."
The two men were now embedded in a terrible and dangerous race. Any misstep
might be fatal and they were aware. A London satirical magazine Bresson and
Graham represented in the form of two small birds trying to pick his teeth of a
crocodile. "Hey, Bill, you think it will keep the mouth open for a long time?"
Asked the French. And the Englishman replied: "No. And in your place, I would
drop.."
But centimeter by centimeter, every day the two chicks were sinking deeper into
the throat of the dreaded reptile.
"Coma more than nineteen minutes and twenty-three seconds" for Graham.
"Coma over nineteen minutes and thirty-five-second" to Bresson.
"Coma plus twenty minutes and one second" to Graham.
The British had now reached the same level as Felix. He was facing the wall.
Moch 1. And hard as it was, no doubt, Ason next flight, it would exceed the
first door.
Raoul was furious
- We will be overtaken by the British on the finish line, we, pioneers! That's
too bad.
His fears were well founded. Bill Graham was not anyone. For thanatonautique, he
had known a good school: the circus. Former trapeze artist, he knew how to

90

program starting in the air without a net. An interview with the Sun had also
told me that he attributed
165
his talent to good control of drug taken. Himself a former addict, he felt that
in itself, drugs were neither good nor bad but simply that it generated enough
energy to control.
Graham explained in an article: "Why not put the proper use of marijuana,
hashish or heroin program in universities called primitive societies, each drug
with plants during ceremonies to give? . sacred character to the absorption of
drugs in the West, addicts are destroyed by drugs because they use no matter how
But there are rules to follow:. never use drugs to overcome depression, or by
simply idleness to escape reality. Always require a ceremony! then study the
effects of each product on its body and assaying according to his expectations.
Ultimately, one could imagine a permit to take drugs reserved for insiders. "
I deduced that the former British trapeze artist must surely tinker a decoction
to his measure before each takeoff. The hypothesis exasperated Jean Bresson who
regretted that the thanatonautique not be decreed Olympic sport. One would then
exclude Graham for doping.
Amandine sank a tender arm around shoulders jeans.
- If there's doping, you're the most gifted. You're only twenty-six seconds of
Bill and without banned substance!
- Twenty-six seconds, you know what it is twenty-six seconds retorted the stunt,
dissatisfied.
Raoul always displayed the marked map of Terra incognita line with the large
funnel.
- Twenty-six seconds on high, that must mean a territory the size of France.
Their geography Ultimate Continent surely ahead of ours!
Amandine sank against Bresson. Suddenly, my eyes were opened. Amandine loved
Thanatonautes all Thanatonautes and nothing but the Thanatonautes. The own
personalities to Felix Kerboz AJONES Bresson or not interested. Only their
pioneering quality of the passionate death. While I would not get myself
thanatonaute, she never would lift the gaze on me. She had to pick with his
death and she reserved her love his valiant fighters.
Stimulated by the soft touch of Amandine, the stuntman announced
- Tomorrow, I will go to "coma more than twenty minutes."
166
- Only if you're pretty sure of yourself ... Raoul corrected.
The British magazine had gone there for a new cartoon. Both chicks are always
busy between the teeth of the crocodile. "What will happen to me if I sink too
deeply into his throat?" Demanded the jeans bird. "You will reincarnate you,"
Bill replied the bird. "No, it will swallow me and transform me into a big turd.
- Exactly, jeans ... This is a reincarnation."
The design gave me an idea. The outcome of the duel was not necessarily fatal.
- Why engage in any price to a deadly competition? If this is so fortiche
Graham, whatever the means he uses, we only have to invite here. President
Lucinder has he not wished that we welcome foreign Thanatonautes to share our
knowledge?
Raoul's face brightened
- Great idea, Michael!
That night, accompanied her jean Amandine for me. Alone in my apartment, I
Acharnai on my computer to develop a new chemical formula booster.
We all guessed that the English were about to cap us on the post. And indeed,
the next day we learned that Bill Graham had exceeded 1 Moch.
According to the morning papers, he had accomplished this feat in the night,
just as we planned to invite in our thanatodrome. The problem was that Bill
Graham was not able to brake in time. 1 Moch had swallowed.
108-MYTHOLOGIE SOUTH AFRICA

91

At the time when all animals were still human beings, it was once a little hare
who was mourning the death of his mother.
The moon came down to console him: "Do not worry, your mother will return See,
me, I appear, I disappear, one believes me dead but I still reappear it will be
the same for your mother..."
The little hare did not believe her. He even fight with the moon so she let him
cry in peace. He scratched so hard that she still bears the trace. Then the moon
became angry and split his lip
"Since this is so and that the hare does not believe me, he will not be reborn
like me the moon, but will remain dead."
167
As for the hare, in fact, was a human being, she turned it into a frightened
animal only fit to be driven. But we should not eat a specific area of the hare
because this piece recalls that it was once a human person.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
109 - 1 PIGS
Bill Graham disappeared, we always stayed in the World thanatonautique head. But
behind, a whole platoon regrouped to catch up and possibly overtake us.
Jean Bresson toiled against the first wall. If it was behind Terra incognita
remained, corolla the funnel, however, was getting better known. Les
Thanatonautes worldwide in the grappillaient centimeter by centimeter walls as
eager sperm.
The London magazine continued to represent the pioneers of death as small birds
pecking the jaw of a crocodile yawner. "Come, little, I always hungry," said the
caption of a third drawing showing the reptile, open mouth, few scales covered
with blood and feather supposed to represent the poor Bill.
Jean Bresson did not lose his cool so far. As Raoul, he thought it was only
gradually that we would come to nibble the comatic wall.
Advertising or desire to encourage science, the president Lucinder created a
trophy together with a significant price: the cup "Moch 1" and F 500,000 for the
champion who cross the first and would tell his trip unscathed.
Vocations were born.
The time for "sports" had come. These were young men convinced of the impotence
and uselessness of official thanatodromes too timid. And they intended to leave
and return as they pleased. After all, rewarded with a cut, thanatonautique
resembled present at pole vaulting or hurdling. We went into what I called the
phase "gymnastics".
Clubs, private companies worked out their own runways, with boosters copied to
ours. An ingenious mind
168
had the idea of a newspaper, Le Petit illustrated Thanatonaute, providing
practical advice and offering the latest plans of the continent from the dead.
Fans exchanged by ads recipes for better off, selling vials of propofol or
potassium chloride stolen in hospitals and even dental chairs.
Y were obviously included posters of the most famous Thanatonautes Felix Kerboz
Bill Graham and Jean Bresson.
And every day the monster snapped up his dose of "sports" unwise. The
thanatonautique was not a business like any other. One fell once. We rehearsed
in every key in our interviews, but it was precisely the risk that excited the
young.
For them, it was the height chills. A bit like the Japanese martial art, Yai,
where two wrestlers are placed face to face in a suit, the winner being the
first that comes to unsheathe his sword and àfendre two skull of his opponent.

92

Accidents do not discourage the pioneers in grass. As for the bonus, it
attracted many crooks.
We received numerous phone calls.
A man claimed to have spent Moch 1 and saw a blue hall which continued toward a
white light. But when we convoquâmes and that he was interrogated under truth
serum, he admitted inventing the story to get the reward. Many other jokers
tried to simulate a successful flight. In the wildest stories we received, there
was the case of one who lives behind Moch 1 stepmother, another who discovered
Jesus Christ without a beard, the Apollo 13 rocket, a junction with the Bermuda
Triangle, aliens, and even ... nothing. This made us laugh a lot. "Behind Death
there is ..." Nothing! "He declared. And what is nothing?" Well, nothing is
nothing, "he replied with effrontery ...
Many honest people are also lost their lives.
For his part, Jean Bresson, without making waves, progressing second by second
and millimeter. It was now to "coma over twenty minutes and one second."
Their departures were more impeccable. His heart gradually slowed and I had
developed a much softer booster formula which allowed a better action of the
will (thanks to a new product: Vecuronium but not bore you with the chemical
formulas, know that Vecuronium 0 01 mg per kilo, it's still not bad).
169
- Today I will try to spend 1 Moch, badly Bresson announced jeans as he settled
for the umpteenth time on the flight chair.
- No, no, do not do that! Amandine replied that no longer hid his affection for
the young stuntman.
She took his hand. They embraced at length. He grabbed her by the shoulders.
- Do not be afraid. I am well prepared, I know my business, I know that now I
can do it.
His voice was calm and decided. Nothing in his behavior betrayed the slightest
hesitation.
That night he loudly made love to Amanda and the next morning he was in good
spirits.
He stood himself needles in the veins and controlled the screens as a pilot
engaged in a check-up of the cockpit before takeoff.
- Wait, I say, if you succeed, and I believe you will succeed, you need the
press to be there.
Jean Bresson reflected. He did not care projectors and glory. He had seen that
these mirages had led the poor Felix. Yet he was aware that without advertising,
our credits would be lower and that, in any event, with regard the future of
thanatonautique, it was important to have a maximum of witnesses.
So he removed the needle and waited.
At eight in the evening, all the international press huddled on the sixth floor
off area. We had set up barriers between the launch of the throne and the zone
"visitors", complete with cinema seats for the comfort of our guests. Some were
coming to witness firsthand that the death of a thanatonaute.
In a second, here, someone was going to rob it of its carnal envelope may never
find her. The excitement reigned in the aisles. Since the dawn of time, death
has always fascinated men.
I recognized very agitated, host of RTVL who had officiated at the convention
center and more serene, Villain, journalist representative of Small illustrated
Thanatonaute.
Raoul, Jean and I had put on the tuxedo for special occasions. With Amanda, we
cleaned thoroughly our thanatodrome which began to take neglected garage paces.
170
On his throne Jean Bresson seemed very focused. Everything about him exuded
strength, confidence and determination. We had prepared him a audessus Ultimate
Continent map and he stared at length as if to memorize his goal Moch Moch 1. 1.
Cross II gritted teeth.
"Moch 1, I will transpercerai" escaped his mouth.

93

It still blew several times.
He set his timer on "coma exceeding twenty-five minutes," then sat on the
dentist's chair and, still calmly sank the needle into your elbow.
All cameras marched while reporters were whispering comments to not interfere
jeans Bresson in his concentration.
"... Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Jean Bresson will attempt the impossible, to
pass the first comatic the wall. If he succeeds, he will receive the most
cutting premium 500 000 F. For several days the athlete prepares and its
concentration is intense ... "
- OK, ready, jean announced dryly.
We verified one last time all monitors.
- Ready for me, I said.
- Ready, 'said Amandine.
- Ready, said Raoul.
He held his thumb as a pilot ready for takeoff.
- All right straight on into the unknown, murmured Raoul.
Jean Bresson égrena slowly.
- Six ... five (eyelid closure) ... four ... three (rollover head back) ... two
(fist closure) ... a. Takeoff!
We passed the fingers. Good luck, jeans. "Plague! Disje me, this guy will
finally discover what there is behind the death. He will experience the greatest
of all secrets. The great mystery, one we will all face. He will find it and it
will say: "The death is this," or rather: "Death was not that much. "Veinard.
Amandine swallows the eye. Veinard. I might have to leave in its place. Yes. I
should have," thought I, while the cameras were rolling at high speed to avoid
losing a millisecond the scene.
110 -Sheet POLICE
Name: Bresson
First name: jean
Brown Hair
Size: 1 m 78
Distinguishing features: None
Comment: A pioneer of thanatonautique
Weakness: No weakness
111- HISTORY MANUAL
Once the path opened by Felix Kerboz, flights to the country of the dead
continued unabated. The failure rate had fallen to insignificant levels because
the path of the afterlife was now live and safe.
History textbook, Basic Course 2nd year.
112 -BY BEYOND MOCH 1
Hold.
I looked at my watch: jean took off twenty minutes and forty five seconds. Now
he had to be there, to see what was happening beyond Moch 1. He had succeeded,
he had cleared the obstacle, and he was running up a completely new knowledge.
He saw, he knew he discovered. We all longed to see him back so he says. What
could possibly exist after comatic wall? Who or what is death?
Coma over twenty-one minutes. He was always there, the cord had not been cut and
he was still salvageable. Great.
Coma over twenty-one minutes and fifteen seconds. He was splendid gorge of
information. Happy type.
Coma over twenty-one minutes and sixteen seconds.
The earthly body was agitated a blip. Nervous reflex, no doubt.
Coma more twenty-four minutes and thirty-six seconds. The turmoil multiplied. It
was as if the whole body was

94

172
shaken by electric shocks. The face grimaced until they no longer pose a
horrible rictus of pain.
- He wakes up? asked a reporter.
The electrocardiogram showed me that thanatonaute was still there. He had passed
through the first wall of death. The activity of his brain had increased while
that of his heart was always at a minimum.
This was to be the surprise at so much mystery unveiled. Because he had bound
through the door. He had necessarily all inclusive. He was perhaps about to die
of pleasure to know who was the Grim Reaper. Death, he knew all necessarily. Had
he was surprised by the revelation of the mystery?
Coma more twenty-four minutes and forty two seconds. He grimaced and twitched
like a nightmare. The hands were clenched to the arm chair. Ski, shirt sleeves
tuxedo unveiled a crawl.
He had small dry gestures. As if mimicking a fight with a ferocious monster. He
uttered groans, the foamy drool coming from his mouth, he gave punches, hip
shots. Fortunately a seat belt kept the chair lift-off, if not with all this
posturing, it would already fallen, winning at the same time pipes and
electrical son who linked him to the Earth.
Reporters saw the scene, stunned. All suspected that the continent dévirginiser
the dead was certainly risky, but there seemed thanatonaute face the terrifying
phenomena. His face was no longer total but horror.
Coma more than twenty-four minutes and fifty-two seconds. He struggled less. We
were all down to avoid his hands. This agitation seemed to me not very positive.
Raoul was biting his lower lip. Amandine wrinkled mouth and eyes.
I raced to the machine control.
Coma more than twenty-four minutes and fifty-six seconds.
had turned into a seismograph in full in an instant, I understood that jeans
Bresson would soon die if we do nothing. The lights were flashing. Machines
whined. But already its electric timer was activated and made him a strong shock
suddenly return to his body. He started yet. Then everything returned to normal.
The electrocardiogram
The electrocardiograph volcanic eruption.
173
Brainwave softened. The lights went out. The machines subsided.
Bresson was saved. We had recovered among the living. He was like a man
suspended over the void, we would be able to raise a blow to the solid cliff.
Reminder of his rope, made his ectoplasmic cord luckily had stood.
He had spent the wall of fate.
Slowly, we approached.
- He succeeded! bawling behind the man who had to RTV1 enjoy waiting to write
his report. Exclusive first, the channel that you watch more in made you attend
the takeoff and landing of the first to have exceeded thanatonaute Moch 1. Live,
you witnessed a historical moment which, upon awakening, Jean Bresson us deliver
the sensational story.
Pulse normal. Almost normal nerve activity. Normal temperature. Normal
electrical activity.
Jean Bresson opened one eye, then the other.
Nothing on his face reflected normality whose screens showed. Where was the calm
legendary stuntman? His nostrils quivered, his forehead was covered with sweat,
his expression was only terror. With a sharp blow, he undid his seatbelt and
looked us in turn as many foreigners.
The first, Raoul dominant
- Are you okay?
Bresson was trembling in every limb. This was not going at all.
- I spent Moch 1 ...
The hall was filled with applause that quickly slowed before the man who was
spinning on itself, maddened.

95

- I spent 1 ... Moch, he continued. But what I saw next is ... terrible!
More ovations. Nothing but silence. Jean shoved us to rush to u n microphone.
Taking possession, he groaned
- He ... he ... he must not die. Up there, after the first wall is despicable.
Ignoble. You may not know how. Please, everyone, I beg you: do not die!
174
113-ITALIAN POETRY
"Cerberus, cruel and monstrous beast,
Barking and barking out of his triple head
Against the unfortunate immersed in this Hell
The burning eye, and all bloody filthy mane Having barely carry his panting
throat, He is going to ripping his irons.
They howl in the rain, and all allegiance, they have a side and then the other
suffering. The unfortunate sinners often turn!
When Cerberus saw us enter the dark asylum
He showed us his menacing fangs, reptile!
Rage and fury all its members were shaking. "
Dante: The Divine Comedy, "Hell" Sixth Chant
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
114 - A STEP TOO
Needless to say this funny "success" cast a chill on all our thanatonautiques
activities.
John always hallucinated terror, explained to reporters that, behind the first
wall, was a country of pure terror. The total terror.
- Is it hell? asked a reporter.
- No, hell must be more friendly, he said with a desperate cynicism.
President Lucinder organized as planned a small party to return to its price
jean 500,000 F and its cut, but he did not come looking for them.
It spread in interviews booing us. He baptized us "birds of misfortune." He said
he had to stop to explore the continent of the dead, we made a step too far. He
advised everyone to never die.
175
He himself confessed scared of having to one day return there. - I know what
death and nothing makes me more afraid of dying. Ah! if I could avoid this.
He shut himself up in a small house he transformed into bunker. He no longer
wished to meet anyone.
He constantly wore a bulletproof vest. Twice a week, he went to the doctor just
in case. To prevent all sexually transmitted diseases, he gave to women. Because
the deaths were so many accidents on the roads, he abandoned his car in a vacant
lot. Fearing an air disaster, he renounced any conference abroad.
Amandine drummed his vain security door. When Raoul begged him by phone to
provide at least some guidance for his card, he launched: "It is black, very
black and we suffer terribly there," then hung up sharply.
The episode had unfortunate consequences. So far, the public was fascinated
enough for our conquest of the beyond because everyone hoped that we would find
the land of eternal happiness. It was .not for nothing Lucinder and Razorbak had
christened our project from the start task "Paradise". The human race was
convinced that after the blue hall of ecstasy, we would find the light of
wisdom. But if the corridor just wonderful uncorked on the pain ...
The desperate Bresson about their effect quickly. The anxiety became general.

96

Doctors vaccinating a vengeance. Arms sales climbed sharply. The thanatodromes
were deserted.
Before, death was for some easy termination of life, lights, in short. For
others, it was a promise of hope. All now know it was the ultimate punishment.
The existence had become an ephemeral paradise of which we should all pay a
heavy day invoice.
Life was a party. Beyond that, there was only darkness! Great success of the
exploit Bresson! Our experiments confirmed the two had terrible truths serinées
my father: "Death is the most terrible thing" and "you do not mess with these
choseslà" ...
176
115-Mesopotamian Mythology
"I have read all the countries I crossed steep mountains. I went through all the
seas and I have found nothing happy I am condemned me to a life of misery And I
filled my flesh pain. "
The Epic of Gilgamesh.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
116 - THANATOPHOBIE
After Bresson case, we passed a big and long phase of stagnation. Everyone
feared death and unspeakable nightmares had mentioned John.
There was, however other Thanatonautes to cross the wall. But their testimonies
were not reassuring. Some spoke of their encounter with the Grim Reaper, a
skeleton armed with a scythe that was whistling his weapon to cut the umbilical
cords unwary who had ventured too far.
An African-marabout thanatonaute reported having avoided a giant serpent
breathing fire. An Icelandic shaman claimed to have encountered a grinning
dragon teeth smeared with blood.
- What is strange is that the vision of death varies across cultures, merely
muttering Raoul, and he pretended to engage in calculations with his compass.
But I knew that his remark did not even reassured.
The testimonies of new Thanatonautes became increasingly frightening. They spoke
of hundreds of giant spiders putrid venom spitting, flying rats with long sharp
incisors. It felt full account of Lovecraft. Monsters descriptions accumulated
ever more demented.
A Portuguese thanatonaute still bewildered by his landing recounted having
crossed a bat whose head was adorned with a necklace of human skulls. The
stories became more horrible day.
Myself I began to fear death. I earned it
177
had to call the "thanatophobie" room. The Little Thanatonaute illustrated, with
hyper-realistic representations by added more in the bloody and disgusting.
Death, really, it was to make you die a second time for fear upon your death!
Where was the hard earned eternal rest if he had to face, passed away soon, all
these monsters carpet behind Moch 1? Because, according to the testimony of
international Thanatonautes, they seemed all there, hidden expect after 1 Moch,
we are called Devil's cloven feet, Chtulu gauzy, gooey Dragon, Griffon inflamed,
Chimera sneering, Incubus, Succubus , Minotaur, Devourer of Souls.
Death is a trap. The light attracts us and demons arise from his first curtain.
Needless to say, the number of suicides fell overnight. All deemed dangerous
sports - motor racing, boxing, skydiving, motorcycling, horse jumping, skiing or
bungee - were gradually abandoned by thrill seekers fewer and fewer. The dealers
were no longer able to peddle their cam. Tobacco merchants closed their doors.
Pharmacies prospered.

97

For added security, power sockets was lowered.
Many balconies were screened. Multiple lightning rods bristling skyline. The
designers put fashionable padded clothes that gave the appearance of a puppet
holders thereof but proved protective in case of falls. The guardrails were
built along the Breton cliffs.
In the laboratory, Raoul, who was trying to remain calm in this storm, drew on
the map behind the first wall a black hallway decorated with a question mark.
- What can there possibly be behind that has frightened both Bresson and others?
Our experiences were suspended for hours, without the least voluntary
thanatonaute. We met regularly to Père-Lachaise, just to get some fresh air and
think together.
- What is Lucinder? asked Amanda.
- It merely repeats "what if Bresson was right?" Replied Raoul. He was enchanted
by the afterlife seen from afar. He now says that, up close, it could be much
less interesting.
178
- But all the people who were flying around him seemed eager to rush there, I
insisted.
- Mirror larks! It is when we are close we understand that we should never have
to go. Lucinder is not at all convinced that death is a cakewalk.
Amandine, Raoul and I were in disarray. We had so much trouble to unveil a
horror that should remain forever the most ultimate surprises.
All our actions, good or bad, we drove to the final abomination. Maybe this was
it inevitable Hell teeming zoo tortuous snakes and grinning vampire that all
religions of the world had sought to conceal?
What a Pandora's box we had open? What evil forces had we paid with our morbid
curiosity? We wanted to know the mystery of death ... it gave us quite a lesson.
- Lucinder want to abandon everything, said Raoul. He even thought
àdémissionner. He would prefer the history books avoid mentioning her little
creepy incursions.
- And you
Raoul was as comfortable on a tombstone on a couch. He leaned against a pillar.
- It would be too easy to give up at the first glitch. On landing in Africa,
Australia and Indonesia, the first explorers faced cannibals tribes hostile to
forests full of deadly scorpions and other wild animals and unknown. They have
not fallen so far. Each operation has its share of danger. It's not going to
walk in a rose garden, with the side of children's swings. Adventure is
synonymous with danger!
The fertile mind of Raoul had wrought reason to persevere. He did not take at
all to abandon the thanatonautique. He waved the birds were his hands.
- All these visions of the post-Moch 1 do not agree with each other, and that
all accounts are negative does not mean grandchose. Jean Bresson remains vague.
He who had accustomed us seriously and method, there is that accumulating
adjectives: horrible, awful, disgusting ... With sole precision that everything
is black!
- Conclusion
He lit one of his cigarettes biddies, got up, stretched his long legs and
exhaled the smoke eucalyptus
179
- Conclusion: we can not allow a few cowards to stop our work.
- John is not a coward and he is unable to lie still loyal declared Amandine.
- His senses could deceive, Raoul noticed. Perhaps as a seduction phase
succeeded in repelling another ...
- I too believe sincere, but what bothers me is all these different visions. It
seems that after the first wall, the afterlife is personalized. Remember the
Egyptian Book of the Dead, Michael? He told that the dead had to face monsters,
but that if he could defeat them, then he quietly continued his journey. An
initiation test, in short, that John was unable to overcome! Hence his rather

98

simple inferences that all was but horror after 1 Moch.
I considered Amandine. His vision was my paradise, his navy blue eyes my great
trip. Why look any further? She hid the look that frozen by me under thick
opaque glasses.
- So, Raoul?
- So we put our work on hold and we let pass the time. A new hunting another.
People forget the thanatophobie. And we will continue for the sake of science!
Meanwhile, Lucinder abolished its law prohibiting aggressive therapy. No one
wanted to risk more to disconnect a patient for the ship to no one knew where.
Before entering the operating room, patients left big checks guaranteeing the
longest retention in on failure vegetable state.
Amandine never saw Jean Bresson. Nobody saw him, too. He finally cashed premium
Lucinder he had used for the construction of a bomb shelter. There it was buried
between shelves full of canned food and mineral water reserves and no more was
heard of him.
-Higher 117 YOGI
Four inner behaviors define ignorance and human suffering
- The feeling of individuality. Due to the success: "I am intelligent" ... Given
the failure: "I'll never."
180
- Attachment to pleasure seeking perpetual contentment sole objective.
- Complacency in depression: the unhappy memories haunting prompting revenge and
oppose his entourage.
- Fear of death: the craving to cling to its existence, proof of his
individuality. Rather than accept to live until death in enjoying life here
below to better develop his being.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
118 - STEFANIA
The thanatophobie lasted nearly six months. Six months of enforced idleness,
discussions and questions rehashed the Thai restaurant of Mr. Lambert, of
wandering in Pere Lachaise, accumulated dust in our thanatodrome. In the
penthouse, plants invaded the piano. We hardly saw Lucinder. Even Vercingetorix,
his dog, was morose. Amandine had taken to the kitchen and tried to comfort us
as we prepare spicy dishes. We played cards. No bridge, because nobody wanted to
do it ... dead.
The glimmer of hope that springs from Raoul watched where we least expected. No
US where we knew that NASA was engaged in top secret research, or Great Britain
where Bill Graham had yet left behind emulated eager to follow in his footsteps.
Our salvation came from Italy.
We were aware of the existence, in Padua, a thanatodrome very efficient but we
thought that, like ours, it was. currently dormant. But if the Italians had put
their pilot program, they had not abandoned completely their takeoffs. On 27
April, they announced that they too had managed to send someone beyond the first
wall comatic and their thanatonaute had regained its carnal envelope by
reporting a much more reassuring witness than that of jean Bresson.
Paradoxically, journalists who immediately lent credence to the horrors reported
by Jean Bresson were skeptical facing the exuberance and optimism of the
Italians.
The Italian thanatonaute was actually a thanatonautesse. Her name was Stefania
Chichelli.
Raoul extensively examined his portrait at the front page of Corriere della
Sera. The smiling young woman explained in the article was devoted Moch 1 after
she had discovered a vast dark and black moor where she had struggled against
bubbles particularly aggressive memories. Astonished his colleagues had made him

99

repeat it under truth serum and his story remained the same.
- So she does not lie, I say.
- Of course not! Raoul sprang. What she says is perfectly consistent.
I remained pensive.
- So Bresson simply confronted his past and found it so terrible that he could
not bear it.
Amandine knew our stunt had never undergone psychoanalysis. At times she thought
he needed as he showed discreet about his past. We decided to investigate and
discovered that Jean had indeed experienced a particularly traumatic childhood.
He had buried under a wall of silence but its covers had exploded Moch passage
1. So many awful memories came back to his mind that he could not take the
shock.
Amanda wanted to comfort him. But, once for all, Bresson had renounced the
world. He did not respond to repeated tambourinemens on the door of his fortress
and it had definitely picked up his phone.
Curious, we invited the Italian to come to Paris to receive the medal of the
Legion of Honor thanatonautique created by Lucinder. The ceremony took place
without fanfare. We preferred to avoid time hype.
Stefania Chichelli was a small stout woman with beautiful baby face. Long wavy
black hair fell to the lower back. His jeans and blouse always seemed about to
burst, but she had plenty of charm with its fresh round cheeks and her childish
smile.
From the airport she squeezed us in his arms, as if to say that we all belonged
to the same family, that of "Thanatonautes who do not fear death." Then she
burst out laughing, pest and surprising.
182
We entraînâmes the Thai restaurant. Expectantly, Lucinder had preferred to make
excuses.
Having lived several years in Montpellier, Stefania spoke impeccable French in
sunny barely a delicious transalpine accent. She began to sink platefuls noodles
with black mushrooms. Full mouth, she émaillait his sentences his thunderous
laugh. I had never seen Raoul attentive.
While listening, neglecting his own plate, he almost devoured eyes.
Stefania recapitulated. Behind the first wall, there was a dark and pestilential
area where it was not wise to linger. Gift bubbles assailed as many devils as
you and sought AYou away from the beautiful light. However, as she went up with
the intention to come down, Stefania had not left nor captivate the wonderful
glow nor by the demons of the past.
Always interested in the take-off techniques - after all it was my part - I
asked her what she used to fly.
- Tibetan Meditation lighter boosters to potassium chloride. I did not want to
wreck my liver!
- Tibetan Meditation! exclaimed Raoul.
He nearly choked, spat politely behind his hand three young shoots of yellow
soybeans and asked
- You are ... mystic?
- Obviously, the thanatonautesse giggled. Go to death is a fundamentally
religious act, spiritual at least. A toxic product allows to take off but how to
go far without discipline of the soul? How to take off cleanly without faith in
God?
We remained speechless. So far we had come not to mix our religion with
scientific experiments. Raoul and I naturally were interested in all ancient
mythologies and creeds of the world but, in practice, we did not want us to
weigh superstitions, whatever their origins.
Moreover, basically, Raoul was an atheist. He boasted, considering that atheism
was the only possible attitude for a modern man wanting to keep everything in a
scientific attitude. For him, skepticism was an improvement compared to
mysticism. God had not been proven, so it did not exist.
For my part, I was pretty agnostic. In fact, I confessed my ignorance. The same

100

atheism seemed like behavior
183
religious. Assert the nonexistence of God is already profess an opinion on the
matter. I've never had so much pride. If ever a God condescended to manifest to
us miserable earth creatures, probably I would change in attitude. Meanwhile, I
remained in limbo.
My agnosticism correspond to my worldview, which was a huge question mark. For
if I had no opinion on God, I was not claiming not to have more about the world
or men. I never understood the beings around me, what happened to me always
seemed to occur by chance. However, I had sometimes felt that nature was endowed
with own intelligence beyond me.
Raoul pressed Stefania issues
- You are what?
- Tibetan Buddhist!
- Buddhist?
- And then it bothers you?
- No, not really! if he apologized, anxious not to irritate our opulent sister.
On the contrary, Tibetan mythology fascinates me. Only I did not imagine Tibetan
Buddhists like ... like you!
- I know nothing about the Tibetan Buddhists. You are the first I meet, Amanda
said softly.
Stefania stuffed chicken three full ranges with coconut milk and coriander.
- We, the Tibetan Buddhists, we did not expect to attract us to death. It's been
over five thousand years that we examine the subject. The Bardo Thodol, our Book
of the Dead, is a perfect little manual to indulge in a Near Death Experience. I
already décorporais to the beyond which no one had yet heard of your Kerboz
Felix!
I suddenly perceived some irritation as the suave mask Amandine. For the first
time in our small circle, she was not the center of attention. She was not the
only woman among us and jealous, she saw Raoul fall in love, overwhelmed by
unusual about this Italo-Tibetan.
The meal, however, continued in good spirits. Raoul Razorbak showed a joy that I
did not know him. He had finally found a woman who, like himself, had only one
real subject of interest: death.
184
119 -Sheet POLICE
Name: Chichelli
Name: Stefania
Hair: Black
Black Eyes
Size: 1 m 63
Distinguishing features: None
Comments: First woman thanatonaute
Weakness: weight Overload
120-JAPANESE PHILOSOPHY
The Naoshige said
"The way of the samurai is made of a passion for death.
If a man is inhabited by such passion, ten men can deal with them.
It must be taken of fanaticism and passion for death to perform feats. If you
let yourself be overwhelmed by the discernment, it is too late to use that
strength. According to the way of the samurai, loyalty and filial piety are
superfluous, it is only the suffering of death. Loyalty and filial piety will
then inhabit the ellesmêmes. "
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.

101

121- STEFANIA, ITS HISTORY
Stefania loved chatting. She willingly gave us her story. Small, it was still
proportionally thicker than now. His parents were restaurateurs and do not skimp
on food. In the evening he had to finish the leftovers that could not be kept
overnight. Matter of simple economics. Still, the seventh of fourteen children,
she was the largest and derision of his brothers and sweats.
Nicknamed the "Pear caramel". His own mother did nothing to remove her complex.
She bought it in advance of loose clothing. "In anticipation of the future", she
said fatalistically.
185
These clothes so ample, so vast, she floated there also never long. Quickly, his
body conquering the volume.
At school, everyone was making fun of "Pear Caramel" and laughed with her, the
more she was hungry. Yet she had the impression to eat normally, merely bread
with pasta, bread with butter and Bolognese sauce with the butter. But when
anxiety remain forever ugly and obese burst suddenly upon her, she did not even
have time to warm plates. She swallowed his uncooked spaghetti, opened at full
speed boxes of sauerkraut or cassoulet she swallowed immediately.
She represented her body like a huge garbage she never managed to fill to the
brim. In its period of greater anxiety, she came to weigh more than a hundred
and thirty kilos.
Of course, she had begun a hundred times a diet, but his need to eat was
stronger than that to have some fun in losing weight.
At the time "eating raw food," succeeded a time of trouble compared to the food.
She ate, she ate, and then she forced herself to vomit to empty his stomach.
Simultaneously, she gorged laxatives. Comprising she put her health in danger,
his parents tried to reason, but if the abnormal weight of their child
overwhelmed them, they were in awe of his mind so agile. For the little Stefania
had from kindergarten, demonstrated genuine intellectual gifts. She jumped a
class two, got top marks in all subjects, from mathematics to philosophy through
geography and history.
The Chichelli renounced reason visibly smart girl they: "If it thus leads is
that it must have reasons that escape us," sighed his father after spitting
surprise of couscous raw sugar syrup grenadine.
His obesity obviously prevented Stefania to move freely in space. Anxious, at
puberty, to seduce the opposite sex despite her weight, she began to acquire a
sensual approach. So far, she advanced to the legs spread like a duck to ensure
a good grip on the ground without his extra kilos will make the drop. It
therefore forced to keep its good calves parallel to be able to wear shoes with
high heels without fear of losing his balance or twist ankles. It thus acquired
a swagger.
186
The men began to look with lust. While standing in the art of moving his body.
After the walk, she learned to sit with grace, voluptuously lying half on a
sofa, holding the neck upright instead of returning to his shoulders. No
movement was insignificant.
To better control his movements, Stefania acquired a kitten which she imitated
all the movements. She understood that a good technique allow him to better
manage his disability.
The cat knew not only beautifully moving but naturally adopted resting positions
of great elegance.
Stefania then devoted himself to yoga and sports claiming a significant physical
force such as mountaineering. Certainly, his bones still bore hundred kilos of
fat but themselves covered powerful muscles and now has considerable flexibility
skeleton.
Compensate. She was poised to compensate.

102

Yoga was not enough. A Tibetan Buddhist arises opportunely and was able to make
a friend. It was not very difficult. Man loved ones. In many third world
countries, large are envied for their wealth allows them to feed in abundance
and considered demigods. But as he also felt the spirit of Stefania and he saw
that forms made her unhappy, Tibetan informed him that the body was not a
hermetically sealed prison and it was easy to escape from. Through meditation,
we could leave and return at will this "envelope" fleeting.
He taught the girl some techniques of disembodiment she assimilated more easily
it was already accustomed to master great physical discipline.
Finally, Stefania was released from fat! By allowing him to décorporer, the
meditation had saved.
To avoid any manifestation of skepticism on our part, she said mocking whether
we believe or not. We will soon rassurâmes: what really interested him was
mostly to understand how she did it.
With a big laugh, she consented to enlighten us.
At a time when the inhabitants of the Peninsula usually indulge in a nap,
Stefania sat in the lotus position and concentrated on flight. A large storm
invaded then its
187
room, tearing his ectoplasm and taking outside. She went out the window in
general, rarely through the roof and never by the door.
- The doors are designed for entrances and exits of the physical body, we she
explained. We should not mix everything.
At first she felt some fears. As soon reached the window, she came into effect
in contact with all kinds of spirits, flying too. But there were good and there
was bad. It was important to distinguish between them.
- Generally bad shave the ground, but if we can not maintain sufficient ASE high
above the roofs, they can become threatening and attack you. As soon as we lost
altitude, we must quickly regain his body to escape.
What exactly were these evil spirits? Stefania declared himself unable to
define. We had to take her word. Nevertheless, through meditation, she asserted
able to browse the entire planet at a prodigious rate.
Well, his mind became light but his body was still too heavy. She fled her
problem, she did not faced. She was, however, constrained by a terrible February
day. Boarder, she found herself in high school, stuck at the bottom of a bathtub
by a bubble of air qu'emprisonnaient his rolls of fat. She fought like a turtle
on its back.
Encouraged by bullying his gym teacher, his pension companions took advantage of
his inability to pour it on all kinds of filth.
When they finally get bored and leave him to his fate, now shivering in the icy
water, his progress in meditation only served him nothing. She might struggle,
his body was trapped in a tin shell and soul too distraught to rise.
A maid delivered the several hours later. Assisted by several colleagues, she
used brooms as levers to uncap Stefania his bathtub.
This marked the humiliation for life. Stefania decided she would take revenge
and thanks to its secret weapon: his ectoplasm!
If he crossed the walls, it might as well cross the flesh! Every night she
therefore began hunting, decided to hit all those that had mortified. She took
advantage of their sleep to invade his victims, beginning with their toes and
then going back to their
188
skull. They awoke experiencing excruciating headaches after living abominable
nightmares.
She kept the best for last. Finally, she took to her gym teacher, the only adult
present during his ordeal, which had joined her torturers instead of chasing
them. Stefania penetrated deep in his heart, even causing arrhythmias. At times,
the heart muscle beating very fast, in others it was extinguished almost.
The woman awoke in a sweat. She vainly made some exercises she knew specifically

103

addressed these palpitations. Understanding that occurred in it a strange
phenomenon, she strongly knelt and prayed fervently to be delivered from the
ghost who had possessed.
Stefania went before a heart attack terrassât definitely unhappy. Yet she
returned regularly persecute.
She reveled in the power that gave him control of his ectoplasm. She used it to
his revenge and thus for evil, in many religions, it is called black magic.
She boasted to his Tibetan friend who begged her to give it up. Black magic, he
said, always ends up dominating you and snap you to the point that you can not
control it.
Stefania had to definitively renounce revenge. Vengeance against his enemies.
Vengeance also against his own body.
She persevered. All her classmates were on aspirin. The gym teacher had a
miscarriage. And the look of Stefania was growing dark! Nobody dared to face.
Obscurely, everyone felt that she was the cause of mysterious facts. previously,
it had been accused of witchcraft. In full twenty-first century, such a claim
would have covered its authors ridicule.
Some girls brought to him an apology. Stefania repulsed a shrug. And she
continued to hit. If taking digestive systems, it was causing ulcers hated
stomachs.
Ultimately, understanding that Stefania risked permanently switch on the side of
the "great anger", his Tibetan Buddhist friend confided to him the secret of
reincarnation. His religion ensured that everyone in his future lives, paid for
the good and bad deeds done during his present existence. Every life should
189
used to teach us something. Love. Passion. Art. That àquoi were to devote his
energy to improve rather than destroy. To attack the other, it was really giving
them too much importance!
Stefania his ears. Then an event occurred that upset her and forced him to
listen. Her classmates attacked all together the maid who saved her. They knew
she was the only friend "Pear caramel". Certainly, they had wanted a little
upset, but the neck of the unfortunate hit the corner of a wall. Whiplash. Death
was instantaneous.
- It's your fault she died, told his Tibetan Buddhist friend. It's your fault if
her children are now orphans. You have damaged your karma. If you do not
immediately decide to give you ATA revenge, you'll pay a thousand times in the
price!
And this final warning, exasperated, he left. Dismayed, Stefania realized it was
time to clear his soul of all the darkness that had invaded. After bulimia,
anorexia occurred. She always hated his body, even now that he founded in the
famine,
To find peace of soul, Stefania decided to advance further in the Tibetan
Buddhist wisdom. A Lamasery greeted àPadoue. She hoped that once its found
serenity, his friend would recur. But she never saw him again. And regrossit.
She got married to please his family and fulfill his destiny in Italian woman.
But she never would a woman like all the others. She was too far advanced on the
path of meditation.
Several years passed before she heard about those French who invented the
thanatonautique. She wanted, too, exploring the continent of the dead. Would it
only to find the maid who saved her.
His friends knew lamas its history, knew how she had first addicted to Evil to
return to the good. They gavèrent the lasagna and polenta to give it the energy
of the trip.
And so it crosses Moch 1!
Considérâmes us with admiration. She looked at us in turn, and then announced
- I see perfectly your karmas. For me, all of you are like open books. Raoul,
thou art a warrior. You find yourself in the middle of your cycle of
reincarnations. You're angry because you started in your previous life,
something you have not had

104

190
time to finish. Where your impatience to succeed in this existence. - You're
right, recognized Raoul. But it is in this life that I have something to settle.
Stefania decreed that I was a young and pure soul, unable to do wrong because I
saw no interest. I was only at the start of my cycle of reincarnations and
therefore affecting ignorance.
- You're smart enough to have realized, she pointed out. It is already much.
Also did you choose the path of knowledge and this is the right path.
- Possible, I retorted, annoyed that sums up my personality in three sentences
to the punch.
Stefania people still thought a little too quickly. She turned to Amandine
- You, what you love most is to make love, is not it?
Amandine blushed.
- And then? she asked. What it does you interested?
- I know, Stefania calmed. It only looks at you. But, you see, you give too much
to others. You imagine you will be able to achieve fully that through physical
love. What a mistake! Sexual energy is the most powerful energy. If you did that
used to orgasm, you épuiseras in vain. You must learn to manage this capital and
to channel that energy.
122 -Manual HISTORY
Les Thanatonautes were strong people, cold blood, gaze. They knew where they
were going. "All right, straight into the unknown," was their motto, engraved on
a medal that all wore neck.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
123 - YOGI EDUCATION
How to learn to meditate
- By disciplining his body and by so doing to remain motionless;
- By disciplining his breath;
- By disciplining his mind.
Just isolate themselves in a room, to take a position
comfortable and set his mind on a point between the eyebrows.
All stray thoughts will fade then. Your mind will become vacant, listening to
the world around. You can tell the difference between what is you and what
belongs to the world. Your "self" will only have to escape from your body to
explore the universe.
Rajaz of yoga meditation technique.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
124 - STEFANIA AGAIN
Stefania was like that.
Raoul remained silent while his contemplation, only sensitive to its presence.
For the first time, I saw my friend love. And the magic seemed to operate in
both directions. Their eyes sought and fled like a pair of turtledoves arrival
of spring. But Raoul's hands did not show well in the pockets of his pants.
Obviously, Amanda did not share our enthusiasm for the Italian. She had not
appreciated his references to his sexuality. An unknown had not the right to
throw you that kind of remark to the figure and in the presence of others, yet.
In his eyes narrowed, marine blue ocean had swallowed the black chasms.
Moreover, Amandine was always the only female representative in our group. She
was accustomed to this exclusivity. Stefania now represented a more dangerous
competitor that she had taken the first wall of death. And that's in addition
Raoul, cold Raoul let himself be seduced!

105

We left satiated, the Thai restaurant Mr. Lambert to get us in our penthouse we
were more Al'Aise to talk. I asked Stefania show us how she went about
meditating.
She sat cross-legged, the spine straight. His eyes closed and ten minutes in,
she stood there, motionless, without the slightest movement. Finally she opened
her eyes.
- There! if she laughed. I interrupted the tumultuous flow of my thoughts and I
let myself be sucked into a vacuum column. I no longer had to let me wear off
through the window.
192
- How did you feel?
- It is not defined, it feels. It is as if you asked me what is the taste of
salt. I would be embarrassed to describe it to someone who does not know the
sweet. What words to use to define it? It should taste salt to find out what it
is. We must meditate to learn what meditation.
The answer was vague to say the least.
- But practically? I insisted.
- You have seen me do. Adopt a position and hold me. To concentrate on one image
and nothing else. You can start by thinking only lead you to a candle flame. She
waltz behind your closed eyelids until you souffliez to turn it off and leave.
- And go where?
- To heaven. The continent of the dead. The problem, of course, is to accept the
idea of dying. You hesitate to abandon your wife, your children, your friends.
You think you need, what a mistake and what pride! Such a state of mind makes it
unsuitable for meditation because meditation is not to make a death. Now it must
naturally accept death as it may be that there is more interesting in life.
Raoul's eyes sparkled.
- I do not understand a word of what you say, Amanda muttered sullenly.
Again, the infectious laughter of the Italian.
- Actually, it would be best to show you how we, Tibetan Buddhists, have learned
to die. For us, and for millennia, death is a science and not a fatality. I'll
take you tomorrow in Tibetan temple of Paris for a practical session.
Fortunately we have our local branch almost everywhere!
125-CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY
"Just as the mind, fell under the bondage of the flesh deserves to be called
carnal, so the body rightly deserves to be told when spiritual perfectly obeys
the spirit."
Jerome, Commentary on Isaiah.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
193
-Always 126 STEFANIA
A wake was held at the Tibetan temple in Paris. Among creamy swirls of incense,
large obese statues mischievous look we watched, Stefania, Raoul, Amandine and
me. I understand how that faith had seduced our Italian: the Buddhist religion
worshiped in Bulk laughing.
I learned later that I was indulged in too simplistic reasoning. These Buddhas
were Chinese and not Tibetan Buddhas Buddhas. Tibetan Buddhas are much leaner
and more serious. This must be a mistake of the Ministry of Religious Affairs,
but as the Tibetans were not home, they had not dared to challenge and had
gradually accustomed to living among Chinese Buddhas. The Buddhas of their
terrifying invaders. Their persecutors. Of those who had destroyed their people.
Bald men in rough skull like rubbed with sandpaper, saluted us without knowing
us. They were draped in saffron robes and were spinning cylinders woodcuts. They

106

chanted texts which I did not perceive the meaning.
Then they gathered around a recumbent. Stefania suggested we join them.
A lama began to recite a poem that Italian polyglot we translated
simultaneously.
"O son, our son, what we call death is now upon us!
You leave this world but you are not alone in this case, death comes to all.
Does not remain attached to this life by weakness.
And even if by weakness thou there remained attached, you're not willing power
to remain on earth. You would get nothing more than wandering in Samsara. So do
not be attached, does not show you weak. Remember the precious Trinity.
O noble son! Some fear or terror that can assault you in the Chonyid Bardo [?
The area after 1 Moch where you assaulted memories bubble], where you will meet
reality, remember these words retain their meaning and in thy heart: go forth.
In them lies the vital secret of Knowledge.
Alas, when the experience of reality will weigh on me every thought of fear,
terror, fear of appearances rejected, may I assume that any appearance is a
reflection of my own con194
ciency, may I recognize them as appearances of Bardo.
When so essential to accomplish a great end, may I not to fear the troops of
peaceful and irritated deities are my own thoughts.
O noble son! If you do not recognize your own thoughts, despite meditations and
devotions which thou art delivered you here, if you have not heard this
teaching, the lights will captivate you, the sounds will fill you with fear, the
rays will terrify you.
If you ignore this absolute key to all the teachings, unable to recognize
sounds, lights and rays, you will wander in Samsara! "
Lyrics of Lama provided a perfect explanation for what had happened to Jean
Bresson and Stefania, spent the first comatic wall. He had fallen into the
Chonyid Bardo. She had learned dy escape.
A monk approached the dying man, and gave himself up to curious touching.
- He squeezes her carotid until they stop beating and sleep occurs, we clarified
Stefania. When the breath is removed from the central channel of traffic and it
can no longer borrow the side channels, he is forced to rise and exit through
the Brahma aperture.
- Clearly, this is now being murdered before our eyes! I exclaimed, terrified.
Amandine had a grimace of disgust.
Stefania looked at me gently. I suddenly thought that I, too, I had acted as
Lama. On behalf of the thanatonautique I had killed people for shipment in the
mainland of the dead. One hundred twenty-three human guinea pigs died by me
brought me to silence.
- What is the Brahma aperture? Raoul asked.
- The opening of Brahma is the door through which the soul leaves the body. In
fact, it is a point at the top of the skull, eight fingers of the hairline,
continued our guide.
Raoul noted the location of the "hole of Brahma" in his little notebook. All in
all, it was a port of departure for the Ultimate Continent.
Facing the dying, the lama conjured the first Bardo, the first
195
world of death should happen soon. He described it as "the world of the truth
itself."
- It is now, in the interval between the judgment of the external breathing and
cessation of internal power, the breath rushes into the central channel, we
whispered Stefania. There is more awareness in this body. The more the subject
is healthy, the phase is long over. Fainting can last up to three and a half
days in a healthy man. It is for this reason that we bury any corpse nor dissect

107

until four days have elapsed since his death. However, if the death is
overwhelmed with sins and that these subtle channels are impure, the moment will
not last a second.
- What are those four days? I asked.
- A gradually recognize the light.
Tibetan Buddhism was decidedly answer to everything. For my part, I remembered
with horror the stories of people who woke up, locked up in their coffin buried
deep underground. They were buried too soon! Some clapped length on the walls,
desperate before actually succumbing to lack of air. Others had the opportunity
a passer or guardian and hear their appeals were considered miraculous. Some
even demanded to be buried with a bell to signal their possible revival. And if
we would wake in the middle of the furnace of a crematorium? It really was
better to wait four days ...
Formerly, little differentiated the death of coma. That is why there were many
buried alive. And today? I was well placed to know that sometimes doubts still
existed. Heart failure, stop the brain, stopping the sense, what was the true
sign of the complete changeover in death?
At the exit of the Tibetan temple, we walked to the Père-Lachaise cemetery to
relax. Raoul and Stefania went before jokingly. Amandine and I were dragging
behind.
- This way of Raoul tease, it's obscene! railed my pretty blonde. A married
woman, and more! I do not know what her husband Labasa to Italy but he better
watch his wife.
I had never seen so displeased Amandine. It was as if, for her, the conquest of
the beyond had suddenly lost all its importance, as if that were not his only
envy!
She was out with Felix. She was out with jeans. Now
196
Raoul and she wanted me confided bluntly, to me who dreamed only of her and she
did not see!
My love, however, was so strong that I tried to reassure her. - Do not worry, 'I
said. Raoul has a head on his shoulders.
She put her arm through mine.
- You think he feels something for me or he sees me as a mere assistant?
Why must women always choose me as a confidant? And the women I desire, and
more!
Obviously, I uttered the worst sentence
- I think that deep down, Raoul ... love you.
You have to be stupid like me to say such nonsense.
Immediately she was exhilarated.
- You really think so? she said in a perky air.
I plunged further. At the point where I was, it was hard to do worse. Yet I
succeeded.
- I even persuaded. But ... do not you dare admit.
127 - ADVERTISING
"Sometimes life is a vale of tears. But I love it. Just yesterday, I found that
the invoices in my mailbox. There was no interesting program on TV. My wife was
looking for me time argument. Contractual PV had covered my car and a vandal had
scratched bodywork with his keys. I almost throw a nervous breakdown, and then
it happened to me. Because life, it n ' Not that this accumulation of villainy.
Life is pleased to breathe a little air, landscapes to discover the infinite
variety, meet all kinds of sympathetic and intelligent human. So I do the part
of things. Life is still a quality product. I rebuke in every morning and I want
more every night. Do as I do! Love life, life will reward you! "
This is a message of ANPV, the National Agency for the promotion of life.

108

197
128-HISTORY OF HEART
I morfondais in my apartment thanatodrome the Buttes-Chaumont, so alone in my
tiny old studio.
Stefania had momentarily returned to the Peninsula. Amandine, Raoul and I took
advantage of his absence to check our equipment and allow it to her the best
possible return booms.
Public meals had become a heavy test. Amandine glided regularly against
everything Raoul and stared with more greed than his plate. Certainly, Raoul was
still under the spell of the Italian thanatonautesse but day by day, catteries
Amandine proved pay.
To my dismay, both were adamant to inform me constantly changing feelings. I was
suffocating, seething with bitterness in my role as a man of trust.
- Did you see, 'said Raoul, I find Amandine dresses better.
- She's still dark ...
He was not listening.
- It becomes more and more beautiful, is not it
- I have always found sublime, I replied sadly.
That evening I learned that they both dined alone together.
They did not return to sleep thanatodrome. I was left alone. All alone in the
sacred building.
I sat on the flight throne, and there, at the crossroads of all the energies of
thanatodrome, I tried to put into practice the advice of Stefania. I wanted to
achieve a transcendental meditation to leave my poor unfortunate skin type.
I closed my eyes, I tried to create a vacuum in me but only my closed eyelids,
suave face Amandine seemed to me on a panoramic screen. She was an angelic
beauty, she regarded me indulgently and his blond hair veiled her full lips.
Of what use was it to me to be famous and esteemed if I was not even able to
possess the woman of my desires?
I was furious. Think Amandine easily slept with me except that like was too
stupid. I opened my eyes. I imagined making love in a hotel ... "to avoid
antagonizing poor Michael" ... I had a giggle. "Damn the thanatonautique" looked
like Felix. What a shame that is Stefania
198
party alone could have prevented the couple from forming, while I ... actually
I'd only help them commit the worst. Was it necessary that I be unconscious to
help my best friend to go out with the woman of all my desires!
No, I knew it would happen, anyway, so I told myself that it would be done
sooner, the sooner I would be set.
From where I was, in the chair, I could see where the gallows were hung vials
boosters products. What good live? And if I, too, was trying to cross the second
comatic wall? After all, I did not have much to fear from my past. At worst I
would find Felix. I started to roll the sleeve of my shirt. For a moment I think
I was trying to commit suicide for love, like a common pimply teenager ...
It was so stupid.
I pushed the needle into the large vein in my wrist throbbing like to try to
avoid this event.
"Here, take this, large vein, it will teach you to not sending enough blood in
my brain to find the words that could seduce Amanda."
I branchai all equipment. I take the little pear electrical switch.
Amandine admired Thanatonautes, she slept with Thanatonautes, she wanted to know
what death by approaching Thanatonautes, it was necessary that I be thanatonaute
for more interest to him.
To say that throughout this adventure, I had so little involved. I was probably
like the Spanish sailors who saw them from boats and go back to America and were
never parties themselves. Yet we can not know something by hearsay. You had to
go there.

109

The pear electrical switch was sticky in the palm of my hand as she was drenched
in sweat of anguish.
What was I doing?
The words of the Tibetan priest returned my ears like a childhood nursery rhyme.
"O son, O Noble son, what we call death is now
here!
You leave this world, but you're not the only one in this case, death comes to
all.
Does not remain attached to this life by weakness. "
199
Do not stay attached to this life by weakness ... My karma was pretty bad during
this existence. In my next life, I try to be a licensed flirty cracking all the
girls. A lifetime to learn to control love, another to enjoy. Yeah, I'm dying
shy, I shall be born playboy.
I looked once pear electrical switch. I swallowed, and without insurance,
entamai the ritual countdown
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Deco ...
The room lit up.
- There he is, Mom! cried Conrad. What are you doing in that chair? You've
looked everywhere.
- Leave your brother alone, said my mother. It certainly check his stuff. Do not
mind us, Michael, continues. We just wanted to do with you an overview of the
economic activity of the store. But that can wait.
Conrad was fiddling with all the buttons potentiometers. Usually, I could not
stand it touches everything and I énervais quickly. That night, I do not know
why, Conrad, the detestable Conrad, suddenly appeared to me as the perfect
example of the good guy.
Imperceptibly, my finger off the left switch.
- We would also have drawings of what there is after the second wall to prepare
the new season of T-shirts! clarified my brother.
My mother went and put on my forehead a big wet kiss.
- And if you have not yet taken the time to eat - you always forget to feed you
- there is the house of the pot-au-feu with àmoelle bones as you like. A dinner
at the restaurant of strength, thou esquintes health. They only serve as remains
and product last choice. It's not worth the kitchen of a mom!
Never had I felt so much affection for these two. Never had I been so glad to
see them. Suddenly, I snatched the needle in my wrist. Blood beaded they did not
notice.
I was no longer inhabited by only one anxiety: would there really enough hot
marrow to spread it on a slice of fresh bread with lots of coarse salt? And a
little pepper. Not too much, otherwise it would spoil the taste.
200
129-CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY
"Then the angel showed me the river of life, clear as crystal, flowing from the
throne of God and of the Lamb. In the middle of the square, on both sides of the
river, there are trees Life that bear fruit twelve times, once a month, and
their leaves healing of the nations. "
130 - STEFANIA IS
Apocalypse of Saint Jean, 22.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
Forget my personal problems. The days that followed, I tried to ignore my

110

individuality. No desire, no suffering. I knew that my desire for Amandine could
very well turn into obsession. Obsession all the more dangerous that now she was
out of reach.
Stefania came to Florence and I think that now that Raoul was interested in
another, we should perhaps pooling our solitudes. Moreover, the Italian seemed
to find me for his taste. It gave me great slaps on the back, giggling and
called me his "stupido Michaelese". A local compliment, no doubt.
The problem is that I wondered how. I have always been a draw flirty. I
certainly had a dozen women to date but it was always they who had unscrambled
to train in their beds and not the reverse. Plus, I was aware that Stefania was
married, even though she never addressed this issue.
Curiously, Raoul and Amandine left nothing reflected their idyll. They will
never be held by hand, do not exchange kisses stolen. Only a certain serenity in
their behavior indicated they had momentarily found peace of the senses, one
from the other.
Stefania noticed nothing. She continued to show even provocative with Raoul.
Normal, a happily married man always exudes a kind of aura that makes it even
more attractive to other women. Me, with my constant anxiety and my perpetual
solitude, I could only repel.
201
I left the job. I threw myself headlong. For our thanatonautesse, I dreamed of
all exploits.
More I missed my relationship with love, the more I wanted to succeed him with
death. Besides my recurring dream in white satin woman skeleton mask was made at
that time even more present. I was perhaps not come to undress Amandine, but I
intend to deflower the Grim Reaper.
Death, I'll know what there is behind your mask!
Death, prepare to be your last secret.
My spearhead would also be a woman: Stefania. Stefania, my ram défoncerait door
black castle.
I still améliorai boosters, the flight throne, I added new touch sensors.
Simultaneously, I was learning maps yogis chakras and acupuncture meridians. I
tried to trace the shape of the vital body which spoke Tibetan books around the
human figure. By dint of studying this envelope, I found myself in the same
flush around me.
I studied a little physiological phenomena related to meditation. I always had
this concern legitimize mysticism by science. According to some books, brain
emitted different wavelengths depending on its activity. They could be captured
by an ordinary electroencephalogram.
When you think "commonly" eg transmitting thirty àsoixante vibrations per
second, this being called beta wave timing phase. More one is awake, the more
focused, more vibrations are numerous.
When we close our eyes, we get immediately an issue of slower waves but
sometimes higher amplitude. It hovers around twelve vibrations per second. Then
is alpha.
In dreamless sleep phase you are in delta waves show. Between half and three
vibrations per second.
I vérifiai on Stefania, my guinea pig. I dropped him sensors on temples,
occipital, parietal and during the flight I spotted an alpha wave emission
activity. This meant that the brain over its entire surface was in a peaceful
sleep state.
But this discovery could not be exploited. Seeing Stefania alpha waves just
informed us that it perfectly controlled his meditation.
During this period, our strengthened team worked wonders.
202
Stefania divorced her distant husband and moved to Paris to work better with us.
They found him in a third floor apartment next to mine.
Every morning, she took off the penthouse only making use of simple meditation

111

to recognize by far the places where this would lead to the same evening
meditation, assisted this time a little chemistry. She was beautiful, luscious
and concentrated among the green plants, near the piano.
I watched from there and then I was talking to her at length before the Ultimate
Continent maps. I added erasures coloriais areas, playing with words Terra
incognita, as if he itched to get them back.
Stefania effected in two weeks three incursions beyond the first wall and we
were thus able to complete our map of the afterlife with some precision,
although it was clear that the past bullessouvenirs Stefania were not universal
and that 'in any case they could serve as a marker to another thanatonaute.
Pending reliable results, we now renounced Atoute advertising. Anyway, since the
terrifying revelations of Jean Bresson, most thanatodromes the world had closed
and we did not have to fear their competition.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff.
Little off the evening. The young Italian was lying on the red chair lined with
black metal. Her long wavy hair streaming down her blouse. She looked like a
Renaissance painting by Titian.
I drank strong coffee. Stefania flights were becoming longer.
For nearly four and thirty minutes, she was immersed in her coma-meditation.
- What are we doing? I asked Raoul, who had just entered the lab, closing his
shirt.
He looked at the timer of the electric clock and saw that it had programmed to
coma more thirty-eight minutes! He jumped.
- This is pure madness! She would never be able to wake up.
I did not notice me.
He turned the timer switch to recover from a blow to zero. Immediately, the
electricity went off in small jerks increasingly supported as a pledged braking
anti-lock systems.
- Home, Stefania, you went too far!
203
We were worried. Yet all went well.
The return is accomplished gradually.
Stefania suddenly opened his eyes, blinked as if plucked from a dream. She
looked at us, smiled and firmly announced
- I saw it.
- You saw what?
- I was at the bottom. And I saw. There is a second wall! Moch 2.
Our thanatonautesse caught his breath while Raoul seized the Ultimate Continent
map.
- Tell, he said.
She spoke.
- At first, as usual, I ended up in a dark corridor where bubbles of light
attacked me. In each bubble was a painful memory, things that I had incorrectly
adjusted. If you want to know, I saw a little girl that I had stolen his
briefcase, I saw my mother crying because I had bad grades, I saw a young man I
had rejected and who committed suicide spite. I obviously seen when I was a
turtle on its back and the day I learned of the death of the school's
housekeeper.
"I stood up to all those bad memories and everyone I explained my actions. I had
stolen the briefcase of the girl because my parents were not rich enough to buy
me one, I ' had bad grades in school because my mother left me no time to work
on my homework, she always asked me to do the dishes or sweep, the man I had
pushed me while I was dragging 'was already taken by another young man I liked.
I was not responsible for the death of the school's housekeeper.
"Around me I saw the other dead to fight against their memories without getting
to be justified. While the memories gradually overwhelmed them, like white blood
cells attacking a microbe. Those killed were beaten on the part of their
victims, those who were negligent received slaps. Sloths were thrown into the
mud. Angry were washed away by the waves. This show also reminded me strangely
The Divine Comedy by Dante.

112

"Those who had sinned by avarice saw their eyes sewn. Those who sin by lust saw
their burning flesh. The death is still terrible.
204
"When I had overcome my demons and witnessed the battles of my neighbors, I
continued in the dark corridor which now became purple all around me, evoked two
masts.. Fear and darkness The walls had a powdery consistency and smell Earth
has just been plowed.
According to her, the huge hall was reduced constantly but its diameter was
still several hundreds (maybe thousands?) Of kilometers.
It was shaped like a bowl or funnel. People fought with their memories on steep
ledges. It was like a "cylindrical cliff." The light continued to throb at the
bottom of the bowl. But there was no up or down.
She took the card and Raoul bowed so that the tip of the funnel is directed
towards the floor.
- The cone is not horizontal, but vertical, she certified that. The walls are
reduced gradually as we descend the sandy ledges.
She scribbled
1. Takeoff.
2. Extinction of any sign of normal life.
3. Eat.
4. Output of the world.
5. Eighteen minutes flight in space.
6. Appearance of a large circle of light whirling on himself, first image of
Ultimate Continent. Approximate diameter of thousands of kilometers in the clear
zone. Limbo. Blue beach.
7. Approach along the light range. Arrival in the country 1.
I TERRITORY
- Location: coma over 18 minutes.
- Colour: blue. Turquoise blue gradually turning blue
purple.
- Sensations: irresistible attraction blue water. Fresh and pleasant area.
Attractive light.
- To end: on Moch 1 (slightly smaller diameter).
TERRITORY 2
- Location: coma over 21 minutes.
- Color: black.
- Sensations: darkness, fear, earth. Cold zone and terrifying when,
205
on ledges increasingly steep, the deceased confronts his fears and most painful
memories. The light is always present but fear diverts attention.
- If concludes: Moch 2.
- Débouche perhaps on ... Land 3 (?).
Stefania gomma a line traced in another, pushed the words Terra incognita. Our
new border named Moch 2. Now we could call the press. The announcement had an
international impact.
The thanatonautesse Bresson explained that John had certainly been defeated by
his past. Reporters who sought to join for questioning, he refused any access.
In his confinement, the poor man would never know what really happened LAHAUT.
He still had to overcome thanatophobie he had aroused. Search was his family of
old friends. They told that Jean had indeed experienced a dreadful childhood in
a boarding school run by a shady individual who abused students. To prove he had
dominated his fears, jeans became first stunt then thanatonaute. He had done
everything to forget his early years but the first comatic wall had sprung up to
remind him and back into his hell.

113

The director of the boarding school was unmasked, arrested, and closed
institution.
But the fear of death had not completely disappeared. We now knew that death was
not a pure paradise or a total hell. It was "something else". The mystery
persisted.
Forward. Straight, straight into the unknown!
Next goal: Moch 2.
131-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
When Adam appeared on earth, it was the first day, very surprised to see that
the light was changing. When the sun declined and darkness invaded the sky, Adam
thought everything was over. His life and the world were coming to an end. "Woe
to me! Cried he. No doubt I sin that the world goes dark well. We now return to
the original chaos. This is the death that Heaven condemns me." He stopped s
powering and cried all night.
206
When dawn came, he exclaimed: "So goes the world It turns off and on again!". So
overjoyed to know that not everything was finished, he got up, prayed and made
offerings to God.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
132 - DIY
As we progressed slowly, centimeter by centimeter, the Ultimate Continent,
around the world the thanatodromes began to wake up. He even grew like
mushrooms.
The issue again became fashionable. Once we knew that Stefania had the idea to
combine the mystique of science, we build the temples and thanatodromes ACOTA
after the prisoners after the stunt, emerges a new generation of Thanatonautes
mainly composed of clerics and monks of all faiths.
Meanwhile, after the skeptics and enthusiasts, we had to face the laity who felt
this mixture of superstition and research as detonating. They nicknamed us the
"conquistadores of faith" as we were leaving conquer a territory in the name of
pre-established spiritual principles.
In fact, every priest who spent the first wall claimed to have seen the symbols
of his religion. It was normal because in the dark territory, the thanatonaute
was assailed by his own memories.
The Benedictine monks claimed to have discovered the origin of the halo of
saints. According to them, it was a representation of ectoplasm initiating its
exit from the top of the skull. The painters of the time and would have wanted
to post the faculty of the Elect to décorporer.
The antireligious is carried away, claiming that it was all that advertising for
the crown.
There was so much interest, both sacred and so taboo in. Amandine, Stefania,
Raoul and I knew we were handling a bomb that could explode in our faces.
Already the "accident" of jeans should have been a warning to us.
But curiosity was always the strongest. We wanted both
know what was after 2 Moch.
Stefania we spoke to each flight. She had touched it
207
famous second wall, but it did not feel able at this time to take the plunge. It
still lacked something she could not define.
She was not the only one. If other Tibetan Buddhist and Taoist monks and
whirling dervishes, Zoroastrians, Jehovah's witnesses, Trappist abbey of MontLouis, the Jesuits of Saint-Bertrand abbey passed without too much difficulty

114

the first wall comatic, none came to pass the second.
We visited their various places of worship and learned many of their ceremonies.
All religions had in fact retained in their memory takeoff techniques. What did
it matter if their servants called the "eternal prayer" or "contact with the
divine world."
133 -ASTROLOGIE
To change the fate of a man has to go through the twelve signs of the zodiac.
According to some oriental traditions, it needs to incarnate at least twelve
times in each of these signs or hundred forty-four times in all. This is a
minimum. Thus he will tour all the ascendants of each sign and know all the
personalities accessible during a human life. To deserve to become a pure
spirit, it is essential to experience all forms of nature, all forms of
existence.
But hundred forty-four reincarnations are not enough to most beings. The Buddha
would have known five hundred before to understand the world and the vast
majority of us are somewhere between one and two thousandths our human
reincarnation.
Astrology ensures that the twelve zodiac signs are comparable to noon registered
in face of a clock. The minute hand points to our sign, indicates the minute our
ascendancy. Together, they determine the contract to perform at our present
reincarnation.
What time are we of our lives "total"?
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
208
134 - Internationalization
Lucinder visited us and advised us not to gloat too fast. Many religious were
booming. The Pope, as some fundamentalist communities, considered an evil eye
the interference thanatonautique in monastic life.
When Raoul protested that we were there for nothing, the President replied that,
after all, more than one hundred religious of all horizons had already passed
from life to death in trying to continue our experiences. My friend said they
should be more concerned scientists disembodiment conditions rather than only
rely on their faith. Lucinder accepted the argument but we felt concerned about
it.
Could it be that twenty-first century full he fears the power of the clergy?
In our thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont us to work on our part to make them even
safer takeoffs. Stefania had found that the flight was going better when she
held her spine straight, back propped, plated chin on chest and shoulders
exposed. We conçûmes accordingly a throne copy of Swedish seats imposing this
ergonomic position.
We settled around the chair a glass bubble insulation noises of the outside
world. Indeed, the number of accidents had occurred because someone had
inadvertently disturbed thanatonaute in full flight. The silver cord surprised
driver had broken before he could retract it. An untimely phone call, a door
slammed shut with a simple draft, and it was sometimes the insured death! You do
not mess with these things.
To promote even more the development, we set up a high quality polyphonic sound
system so that the soul flies away pleasantly in his liturgical or sacred music.
A great designer and a scientist collaborated electronics ELABORATION a really
comfortable costume.
Now, the uniform of thanatonaute no longer a tracksuit or a tuxedo. It would
look like a holding hommegrenouille. In Paris, we chose a white fabric.
The idea was very successful. Fashion dress made his entry into the various
thanatodromes warming. The Nipponese

115

209
opted for black, purple Americans, the British red. Press photographers were
thrilled: finally, they had a strong visual.
It was logical that suit succeeds crest. Ours represented a phoenix through
circles of flame tapering.
Each thanatodrome, religious and cultural specificities. The Africans were
leaving in ceremonial costume among beats of drums. They had to patch elephants,
leopards and parrots. Jamaicans prefer reggae and marijuana. The Russians liked
the Orthodox chants and vodka. Peruvians chewed coca leaves and flew under the
spell of panpipes. They had to shield the death mask of the Great Inca.
The world champions were the headlines. Each had his favorite. The paris were
given free rein in the London bookmakers. Who would be the first to cross the
second comatic wall? The Spaniard (bull head crest) was given against a àdouze
against American (escutcheon with an eagle head). The testimonials on memories
bubbles accumulated, all different, all exciting. Sales of Small Thanatonaute
shown climbed steeply.
In their shop, my mother and my brother commercialisèrent of flight thrones made
in Buttes-Chaumont and boosters (I had developed a placebo formula very well
tolerated by the liver and kidneys) as well as combinations a-, ec electrical
sensors. The money returned freely.
The thanatonautique did not just spread around the world, it also became more
comfortable, more convenient, more accurate. With the chair protective glass
bubble and the costume seemed beyond the reach of everyone.
135-CELTIC MYTHOLOGY
According to Celtic mythology, Thuata De Danann, tribes doomed Ala goddess Dana,
ran World of northern islands to invade Ireland. They also fought the battle
Formori the dieuxdémons blind and with only one member. They took refuge in the
depths of lakes, sinkholes, wells. They lived in the
210
nether world, a parallel universe they called If (peace) or Tir na nog (young
Earth). Hereafter, they helped às'épanouir humans. A druid came to consult them,
they gave the four magical talismans: the cauldron that fills dagda indefinitely
those who taste them, the spear of Lug which kills even if it is just brush the
enemy, the sword of Nuada making its holder invincible, and finally Fal stone
which by its "art" confirms the royalty of whoever set foot.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
-Second 136 WALL comatic
Despite attempts which multiplied, Moch 2 remained inviolable. Sukumi Yuka, Zen
monk, however, managed to touch and distinguished claimed to have something
behind red lights he described "similar to geisha". Strange expression for a man
devoted to spirituality! He declined to provide further details, merely
repeating that he was anxious to leave to find them.
He did not have a chance to say more. His second flight was the last. He lay in
a pool of semen, body tense like a loving embrace when his companions resolved
to unplug.
The information was kept strictly secret. If people were to find in death the
eternal sexual pleasure, thanatonautique even cause new carnage!
We watched the pioneer who, by a first return, we would yield a more accurate
testimony. It was an Indian yogi, Rajiv Bintou. He described what had happened
to him in a book that was soon to become an international bestseller, Closer to
the end (of the New Continent editions).
As Felix formerly Rajiv Bintou fell into the trap of success. He could no longer
concentrate on his spiritual faculties. To take off, he had to use
hallucinogenic herbs and, in return, he no longer remembered anything.

116

Unfortunately, thanatodrome of Paris never had the opportunity to host Rajiv
Bintou. In a final experiment, the team waited in vain more than forty-five
minutes prior to
resolve to accept the loss of his soul. They entrusted his mortal coil at the
Smithsonian Institute in Washington where it is carefully preserved in formalin.
We had to content ourselves with poetry that permeated his work to mark the area
beyond Moch 2 erotic red color.
Extract Closer to the end
"O confusing world, stagnating after the second somatic Wall
The Pearl your enjoyment are like water lilies.
They announce the erection of the thanatonautique!
Each flight will be like a lover orgasm.
The conquest of the Dead will write the sequel of the Kama-sutra.
This book is only the first chapter of a universe of pleasure whose death
promises a hundred volumes.
O confusing world of the beyond.
Thus, our souls end up in ecstasy.
It is only logical since we are born in pain. "
Three months later, the list of the dead grew longer. All religions were
recruiting Thanatonautes monks and sacrificed them on the altar of the knowledge
of the beyond. All made it a matter of pride. It was important to prove that his
interpretation of the world was only truthful. All means were good to surround
these takeoffs everything necessary to a religious ceremonial act.
What could he act be considered more religious, since it was precisely off
approach the beyond?
They entered the "monumental mystical" phase with departures from the SacreCceur in Paris or the Pyramid of Cheops in Egypt. And we, all we knew of the
country after 2 Moch was that she was "red and full of pleasures."
Stefania could no longer wait to get there.
Many meditation, breath control exercises and heartbeat and finally, on 27
August at seventeen hours, through hard work and determination, she succeeded.
With uncontrollable giggles while scarlet and throbbing, she awoke bathed in
sweat in his chair.
- Wow! if she exclaimed, still exhilarated.
As Raoul bent down to better hear her story, she
212
grabbed him by the neck and kissed him on the mouth. My friend let him do
without much debate while a storm darkened the navy look Amandine.
- Come on, tell us, 'said Raoul, recovering himself with difficulty.
- Waw, waw, waw, she said, it was fabulous. After the second wall is sex,
pleasure, enjoyment, is the big foot, the big foot, the great Roman orgy, fuck,
that's great!
It was hard to understand. She spoke only by impressions. The word "absolute
pleasure" was the one that came up most often. "Pleasure, enjoyment, ecstasy"
and above all an almost obsessive desire to return to get laid.
We tried to ask him more.
She said it was like a thousand power orgasm. A feeling of fullness. Even with
the drugs, even with its best lovers she had never, it seems, never felt such
strength and diversity in a swoon.
I blush.
That night again, I dreamed of the woman in white satin with its skeleton mask.
Death. She was putting the garter belt and promised myself not possible tricks.
The pleasure beyond imagination.
137-STEFANIA If SENDS IN THE AIR
We were at the Thai restaurant and had great difficulty in preventing Stefania

117

always coaxing and talking too loud to contain his excitement. She exuded such
an aura in addition to male sexuality all eyes were fixed on her.
Those women, for that matter. Even Amandine could no longer remain indifferent
to the discordant tones, the ecstatic Stefania words.
She spoke only of fun!
Pleasure! After all, what is our main motivation icibas? What are we looking for
in this life? Why travaillonsnous, do we care to others, what makes us run?
Pleasure!
It took several plates of basmati rice to calm the Italian and, back in our
penthouse, she finds a scientific attitude and agrees to look into our map.
213
So after 2 Moch? Well, about "coma more twenty-four minutes," ectoplasm was
flooded with pleasant sensations. After the blue area and the black area, the
red zone. The Pleasure. Doped, the thanatonaute accelerates its flight towards
the light. The walls of the tunnel are red soft as velvet. The soul has the
impression of having returned to the mother's womb and be prepared to be reborn.
Wonderful!
And suddenly, the most secret fantasies came true. The men had dreamed Stefania
without being able to seduce were there, holding out his arms and multiplying
immodest proposals. She had engaged with them in erotic games she had never even
dared to imagine. But there was no other than sex. She had tasted with delight
foods that had always attempted but had never allowed to touch.
She had discovered that she desires did not know. Women, even if it were
occupied with the sweetest hugs. He had to cling to its strong Tibetan prayers
to give up these delights and return to thanatodrome. She had to use all his
will. She had thought that we were waiting to find out. But it was not the most
important thing.
She had spotted a comatic new wall, Moch 3.
She took the card, raya "Débouche perhaps on Land 3 (?)" Then, stretching his
tongue as an applied schoolgirl wrote instead
TERRITORY 3
- Location: coma over 24 minutes.
- Red color.
- Sensations: fun, light. Hot and humid area where it confronts his wildest
fantasies. Zone as perverse as it reveals the most of our unexpressed desires.
We must face them and invade leave, otherwise we remain stuck to the sticky
wall. The light is always there, as to intimate us to continue our path.
- If concludes: Moch 3.
After this interlude, life in thanatodrome changed a bit. Revenue purple
countries heightened senses, Stefania squarely fell on the head of Raoul. She
also was not too upset him. From the first meeting, my friend did not hide his
fascination with the voluptuous curves of the Italian.
214
Unlike what happened with Amanda, he flashed his affair to light. I did not dare
enter the washroom off for fear of disturbing the couple in his antics.
Amandine was in disarray and of course, as always, she came to me seeking
consolation and comfort. Abandoning the Thai restaurant where Mr. Lambert too we
might fall on the two lovers embracing, she invited me one evening without
warning. There were some eggs in my refrigerator. I improvised an omelet with
scorched shallots. I am not a great cook and the omelette proved a bit
overcooked but Amanda did not care.
- You, Michael, you're the only man who really understands me.
I hated this kind of sentence. Lowering his head, quietly took off a few pieces
of egg shell I had left inadvertently fall into the dish.
I prepared two of my best plates on the kitchen table. Mechanically she sat

118

down.
I shared carefully omelette in half. Amanda stood there, staring without seeing
his portion.
- You do not eat? I asked. It is however not so missed.
- I am convinced that it is delicious, it's not that. I'm not hungry, 'she
sighed.
She took my hand and stared at me with a wet dog abandoned air.
- Poor Michael ... Since I have bored you with my heart stories ...
I looked at her, she was even more beautiful when she was sad. That evening, I
had to listen through the menu while the story of his love affair with Raoul. As
he was soft, like it was full of initiatives and attentive. She assured me that
he was the man of her life and that she had never been in love. I replied that
she should not worry, Stefania was only an adventure, he would eventually return
to it.
I do not understand how a man could not be in love with this sweet doe with navy
blue eyes. Even the plump and too bold Transalpine.
- You are so nice to me, Michael.
But there was nothing in his will that sounded resonate with mine. She
considered me a friend, colleague or as a sexless. Maybe it was my desire that
so exacerbated him
215
repugnant. Perhaps she sensed my passion niagaresque and she feared the effects.
- You are so nice, Michael! Let me sleep with you tonight, I beg you. I am so
afraid of finding myself alone in my cold sheets!
I turned green, I blush, I coughed.
- Okay, I stammered.
I put a cotton pajamas that I buttoned up to the neck. It retained its
combination of silk. I felt to me a satiny skin, a slender body releasing foam
scents and amber. I was in agony. No woman had ever aroused in me such an
upheaval.
Trembling with suppressed emotion, I approached my hand from his shoulder and
brushed his thin epidermis.
Amandine, blandly huddled in my sheets, was an emanation of promised delights.
My brain was in turmoil. A tenth additional motion and I would know what had
been Stefania there. A strong explosion. This was to be my pituitary gland that
sent me this impression of pain. My fingers still went through a few steps on
this dangerous road.
She grabbed my hand and pushed with a sorry smile.
- Do not spoil a beautiful friendship, 'she whispered. You are my one and only
friend, I do not want to lose you.
EDUCATION 138-YOGI
The human body consists of seven chakras that are all Energy.
First chakra: Located above the sexual organs, the coccyx and anus. In good
condition, it provides vital energy.
Second Chakra: Located just below the navel. In good condition, it gives the
power to act.
Third Chakra: Located at the bottom of the solar plexus. In good condition, it
allows terrestrial and cosmic energies to irradiate the body.
Fourth Chakra: Located in the center of the solar plexus. In good condition, it
can feel good about yourself.
Fifth Chakra: Located at the bottom allows excellent communication.
Sixth Chakra: Located between the eyebrows. In good condition, it can feel his
inner energy and gives clairvoyance.
throat. In good condition,
216

119

Seventh Chakra: Located
in the middle of the skull. In good condition, it can instantly perceive the
essential things.
Hatha yoga precept of education.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
139 - STEFANIA OUTDOOR FUN
So many journalists demanded an interview with Stefania my mother organized a
press conference in the room provided for this purpose at thanatodrome ButtesChaumont. My progenitor took pleasure in flushing out all the representatives of
erotic or pornographic magazines and drive them on the spot. "Miss more than our
little Stefania make coverage pigs newspapers!" She muttered, furious.
In great diva, the thanatonautesse sat on the stage and surprised the
congregation who was waiting for a good fifteen minutes by announcing that she
would tell the pleasures met after the second wall only to those suitable for
the heard. But she saw in front of her that journalists child mentality, unable
to get rid of their taboos.
- First psychoanalysis good for all. Then we'll talk! she launched with its big
devastating laugh, referring assistance and the entire planet in their
hypocritical modesty.
There was a murmur of astonished protests. My mother was very upset to have
disturbed so many people for nothing. Next time, no one would respond to his
invitations and it was not good for business!
The discovery of an area dedicated to ecstasy however, was too important event
to remain secret for long. Rumours soon began to run, particularly hot we lacked
precise information.
Reactionary parties and conservative or fundamentalist movements we covered
anathemas.
"Witches Lair" bomba is it on the door of our thanatodrome, before which
constantly flocked embittered demonstrators holding banners like "Stop
debauchery", "Close that brothel," or "Death is not a brothel ".
217
Stefania tried to shout at the protesters.
- I never said that death was a brothel! she launched a hostile cohort wielding
fist. I merely stated that one of the areas of the Ultimate Continent was a fun
place. But I do not know what is after the third wall. We still have so much to
discover.
- Silence, accursed girl! yelled an old man very worthy decorations in his
buttonhole.
He wanted to slap the Explorer. Raoul and I interposâmes us. The brawl
degenerated into street battles. "We two against the fools," I whispered to
encourage me, but I was bruised when the police decided to intervene.
The President gave us a new Lucinder visit.
- I warned you kids! Discretion, discretion and still yet to discretion. To live
happily, live hidden. Apparently we disturb many people. The Pope sends bubbles
against us and dignitaries of all faiths overflow me curses.
- All of piss and vinegar! exclaimed Stefania. They are afraid of the truth,
they are afraid to learn what death really, what there is behind these walls.
Imagine the head of the Pope if after it fell on a god who would proclaim in
favor of abortion and the marriage of priests?
- Perhaps, Stefania, perhaps. But for now, remember that we have not yet met God
and that the Vatican is an institution founded in 1377 while the thanatonautique
possesses barely a few months experience.
The Italian rose, beautiful and generous, ready to face friends and opponents.
- Come, President, you're not going to even make me believe that you are willing
to kowtow to a bunch of bigots!

120

- In politics, you have to make concessions and find compromises ...
- No concession, no compromise, cut Stefania. We are here to fight against
ignorance and will continue our explorations. The man knows no limits. This is
his first quality!
The president's eyes widened. It was the first time he faced Stefania Chichelli.
He better understood the
218
quality of our results. He had an indomitable will to regularly rub death and
this little plump woman possessed. No, no public, moral or religious authority,
never force it to retreat. He greeted her with respect.
The presidential speech was the sole result of making Stefania more voluble with
journalists. Without further hesitation, she spoke bluntly delight she had known
in this third area where all desires, all perversions materialize.
The demonstrations began again. The Holy See permitted the thanatonautique at
all the servants of the Catholic Church, Apostolic and Roman under pain of
excommunication. In a bull entitled "And mortis sacrum mysterium", the Pope
officially decreed the death taboo. Any path of a living to the land of the dead
prior to his death would henceforth considered a cardinal sin.
"Death to the heretics!" Chanted are we under balconies Vatican. "Croquons the
apple of knowledge!" Answered our fans.
All this commotion was us equal, but President Lucinder, he does not take it
lightly. The church still had a great influence in the country and he needed
every possible vote for his future re-election.
"All the better if the death leads to orgasm, gave Stefania in Small illustrated
Thanatonaute, and too bad if so many of piss and vinegar now consider a place of
debauchery" Our friend did not beat around the bush. We were still not so sure
of ourselves.
People are always afraid of what is new. A decline was irreversible phenomenon.
We already had the chance to have got this far without hindrance.
140 HISTORY -Manuel
HOW TO DISPOSE OF OLD
In some cultures of ancient times, there were practices to get rid of too old,
thus unfit to economic or social life. Among the Eskimos, they got rid of the
old grandmother by bringing down the ice where it was
219
eaten by bears. In general, she went herself when she felt too much in his
company. In some Norman families, it was driving up the old scale and the last
bars were sawn. They said the ritual phrase: "Come, granny, go up to the attic."
In the attic ...
History textbook, Basic Course 2nd year.
141- LUCINDER AN IDEA
The next time Lucinder chooses to meet us on his land. Considering that, with
him, we would be more malleable, he called us to the Elysee. In his desk, he was
not alone. It also was a strict woman crossed legged.
The head of state explained that he would not go to war against religions.
- You are wrong to underestimate the old powers. Modernism can not be imposed in
a cavalier. We have to deal with.
Stefania did not hear it that way.
- You do not know what I've seen, I do not see what we could call on.
Lucinder smirked.
- Certainly, we have not had the chance to land in the red country, but say, um,
we are able to design what you felt it.

121

- Pretentious! Who can claim to understand the desires of a woman! Stefania
cried.
Amandine could not contain a small pouffement.
Anyway, Lucinder did not get caught on the slope of provocation. He said it was
useless to confront face religions. They were neither good nor bad, they were
just trying to survive.
Raoul remembered that Darwin had made an international reputation precisely by
attacking religions and that without this provocation, Darwinism could have
emerged so quickly. Lamarck, who had not understood, disappeared into the
dustbin of history.
Lucinder accepted the argument, but he did not budge much for its ambition to
bring everyone together, reactionary and modern.
220
- There is a way to reconcile the left wing and the right wing. We must bring in
thanatonautique rationality. Respond to religion by science. It's now or never
need to silence the skeptics, hence my idea of using Madame.
He introduced us the woman crossed jacket.
- Professor Rose Solal is an astrophysicist and astronomer explained Lucinder.
For a long time she is working on a particular project, "Eden". Project "Eden",
"Paradise" project, you see that your research show some similarities,
especially as the goal of "Eden" is to find the exact location in space of ...
Paradise.
Locate Paradise in space, the goal we hardly seemed conceivable. We of course
had always spoken of a "continent of the Dead", but n-'était for us a view of
the mind. We considered the hereafter as another dimension, a different reality
which hosted the soul out of our body. A parallel universe of sorts. That was
our assumption.
That this country can really exist in the starry sky above us was we never came
to the idea. Certainly, many of the ancient peoples had been persuaded but so
many rockets, shuttles, Sputnik and Apollo missions to the space we had proven
that the sky was populated by galaxies and stars!
President Lucinder was decidedly unusual man, open to the boldest experiments.
The next day, Rose Solal thanatodrome joined our team in the Buttes-Chaumont. We
were now five to work there.
142 - CELESTE GEOGRAPHY
Genesis is the first text to provide a precise location in Paradise: the
confluence of the sources of the Mesopotamian rivers Tigris and Euphrates. In
379, St. Basil made astronomical figure of precursor material by placing it
beyond the stars of the firmament, in an older world than the visible universe.
Dante, to be a poet, did not consider it unless the Paradise must be in a
concrete place, namely in the "envelope" around which he stars. The German
Jesuit Jeremiah Drexel (1581-1638) engages in complicated calculations
221
say that the elected are going to exactly 161884 943 miles from Earth. Thomas
Henri Martin (1813-1933) has a broad vision: Paradise, he says, is in all
heavenly bodies.
Jermain Porter (1853-1933), director of the Observatory of Cincinnati (Ohio) and
former theology student, looks into his astronomical telescopes location of
Paradise. He is convinced that by dint of exploring the vault of heaven,
scientists can not fail to discover the "heavenly Jerusalem".
The Reverend Thomas Hamilton (1842-1925), using the work of astronomers and
Maedler Proctor, says that Paradise lies on the star Alcyone, the group of
"Pleiades", five hundred light years from us. The French physicist Louis Figuier
(1819-1863) had already placed what he called the "Palace of the Dead" in the
sun.

122

Logic for his time, he assured: "It can not be located further, if not the
elected would take too long to achieve."
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
143 - AMBUSH
I slept quietly in my third floor apartment of thanatodrome when suddenly
something woke me. A rustle, a faint noise ... I sat in my bed, my senses
suddenly alert.
Groping, I tried my glasses on my bedside table. They were not there. What a
bore! I had to leave them on my desk! But if there was a burglar in the room, I
had to get up to go get them and the perpetrator will surely leave me no time.
It would have knocked me forward.
What to do? I pondered speed. The best defense is attack. The man was not to
know that I was unable to distinguish.
- Go away! There is nothing here that could interest you! I cried in the dark.
No answer. And if I saw nothing, I distinctly perceived a presence. A stranger
was in my room.
- Get out! I repeated, searching for light.
I leapt out of my sheets. Fortunately, I wear pajamas, I said to myself, as if
that mattered at such a time. I
222
knew by heart instead of the switch. I lit strongly. There was nobody. Even
blurry, I would have discerned a silhouette. But there, no doubt: the room was
empty. Yet there was someone and someone hostile and more, I was sure.
It happened then something terrible. I received a blow in the chest. An uppercut
snapped by anything, or else by the invisible man!
I finally find my glasses. Grabbed me, I put them quickly on my nose. Always
nothing. This coup, had I dreamed At the end of a nightmare that I could not
remember but who would wake me up?
Me shaking, I turned off and went back to bed still retaining my glasses. I lay
down, brought him back the sheets on my shoulders and waited ...
It was at that moment that the thing really showed. A presence penetrated me, by
introducing my toes and invading my body. Awful feeling! Any burglar would have
been preferable to this ectoplasm that attacked me. And speaking!
- Stop touching forces beyond you!
I struggled but how to defend against a soul in ambush?
- Who are you? Who are you? I cried.
But I knew the nature of my enemy surely a religious anxious to force us to stop
all thanatonautique experience.
I was struggling but he kept advancing. The ectoplasm was on my knees in my
stomach, my intestines was feeling from within.
Thus, the forces mystics had decided to declare war on us. On our way. In their
own way. Through meditation, through disembodiment, the ectoplasmic attack. We
underestimated our opponents. How to defend against enemies who cross all the
walls and even our flesh barriers? My body did not belong to me. He was haunted
by a crazed fanatic enraged by our research on Paradise. If it was a priest, he
would run away if I knelt and prayed to the Virgin Mary?
But kneel is unworthy of a fighter. Strange thing that came to my mind at this
moment of horror, it was the memory of a shooting during the zen arc. To succeed
his shot, we must visualize the target in his mind. Then one becomes the arc,
the center of the target, the same arrow. And arrow has an appointment with the
center of the target.
223
I got up, adoptai the battle position and closed my eyes. Immediately, my
opponent appeared to me. I was dealing with the ectoplasm of a small and puny

123

monk. If I raised his eyelids, he disappeared. If I was lowering, he was there
before me, ready for a duel I did not know the rules. Regardless paradox of
having to close their eyes to see better! It is the children who act to chase
danger, not adults!
Eyes tightly closed, I fully visualisai my opponent and did shrink in my mind.
Then I placed a transparent bow in my hands and adoptai the position of the
shooter bandaging his weapon.
The ectoplasm stopped laughing.
We were two spirits in one body. Hers and mine. He also pulled out a crossbow
and put me in plays. I drew. He pulled simultaneously. My arrow struck ectoplasm
in the forehead. I flopped.
144-PERSIAN PHILOSOPHY
"I do not know if the one who created me
For me to heaven or to hell.
A cut, a teenager, a lute at the edge of a field,
I do so please leave you cash and your credit paradise.
Ignoring this material body is nothing,
The cycle of the heavens, the face of the earth are nothing.
Be careful in this fight between death and life,
We are committed to a blast and that breath is nothing.
Do not pursue happiness, life is the time for a sigh. H
Omar Khayyam (1050-1123), Rubai YAT.
Extralt thesis Death Unknown this, by Francis Razorbak.
145 -Sheet POLICE
Note to the services concerned
Stir among players thanatonautique movement. We would root out these experiences
to their roots. The thanatonautique is a
224
danger to us all. Have already indicated several times need to intervene. Asking
permission to act.
Response to the relevant departments
Imperative to wait. Situation under control. Premature concern.
146 - LA COURSE CONTINUE
Black and silence.
I finally opened my eyes. Opaque light. A charming and graceful figure appeared
in the halo. An angel, no doubt.
He leaned over me. The angel looked strangely like a woman but beautiful, like
we never see on earth. She was blonde, with dark blue eyes.
Her perfume smelled apricot.
Around us, everything was now white and serene.
- Hey ... on ... and ... Je ... oh ... me.
Angels had to speak a language to them an angelic jargon to non-angels.
- Ué ... my ... tai ... ero ... I had.
She patiently repeated the chant and ran a soft and cool hand on my forehead
smooth.
- You are my hero. I love you.
I looked around, somewhat dazed.
- Where am I? In Paradise?

124

- No. In the intensive care unit at St. Louis hospital.
The angel smiled, reassuring ... I recognized that face. I would have recognized
among a thousand. Amandine. I jumped. Everything came back to me. I struggled
against a fundamentalist ectoplasm.
- I was passed out?
- Yes, for three hours.
Amandine cala a cushion against my back so I could sit more comfortably. I never
had seen so considerate to me.
Near her, Raoul, Stefania and astrophysicist watched my reactions. Raoul
explained that Stefania was awakened by my cries. She had rushed into my
apartment and she had witnessed the last moments of the duel.
225
- It was like in Gunfight at the OK Corral, sighed the Italian. I have not even
had time to intervene as you had already eliminated.
- He ... he ... died?
The famous Stefania laugh echoed through the room.
- The ectoplasm do not die like this. Your guy had to return post-haste his
mortal coil. We bet that this curious already mentioned to his friends that the
house is well defended.
Amandine kissed me.
- My love! To think that we were so often so close to each other and I never
doubted me you were the best. You managed a disembodiment. Should I be blind not
to appreciate what is within my reach. It took this terrible story that I
realized that you are a warrior. A real!
She pressed herself against me and I felt the soft sweetness of her breasts
against my arm. An avid tongue pushed his way between my lips.
The kiss left me obviously not indifferent. I had waited so long for this second
...
147-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
GILGOULIM: The Zohar, the "Book of Splendor", a reference work of Kabbalists,
attributed to several causes reincarnations. (Gilgoulim literally means
"transformations".) Among them: not having children, not getting married.
Moreover, if someone gets married but died without having begotten, husband and
wife go through a reincarnation before uniting again in two other lives.
Because, for the Kabbalists, the union between a man and a woman embraces three
dimensions, physical, emotional, spiritual, and is a crucial way to infinity.
Jewish tradition considers that, in general, it is common for spouses are
already known in other lives.
WOMEN WITHOUT CHILDREN: A man proved unable to generate says a text of Kabbalah.
A wise man told him that in fact his wife was not really his wife. He had
received property as he was not the owner. And as the soul of his wife
226
was deeply masculine nature, it was normal she could give her offspring.
MARRIAGE: According to the Zohar, marriage is an important field of experience,
essential to spiritual development. The spouses together to resolve conflicts
harmful to their inner growth. At each, each one deserves.
RAISING A CHILD: Similarly, the experience of raising a child is considered an
essential element of the Earth's existence. If one has not been able to properly
raise a child for at least one of its lives, we continue to reincarnate until
the complete success of this exercise.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.

125

148 - FINALLY TOGETHER
The day after my fight, barely recovered from my bruises, Amandine invited me to
dinner at her house, in her second-floor apartment. She had developed a romantic
table, floral decoration and fragrant candles.
- Do you think, Michael, that some people are destined àvivre together? me she
asked point blank.
I swallowed a mouthful of crooked toast Norwegian salmon and swallowed a glass
of champagne.
- Yes, definitely.
She leaned toward me and our foreheads touched.
- Do not you think that in spite of many obstacles, those destined to meet
always end up finding, because their fate is written somewhere in a great book?
I agreed again while my girlfriend was pursuing
- I am convinced that there, when Stefania crosses the last door, she discovers
that grimoire containing the complete list of all past and future couples.
I pondered the proposal
- Is this really will be a good thing?
- Of course, we will lose more time in useless wanderings. Those destined to
love is love immediately. More wedding complacency
227
growth, more estimation errors, more deception, more divorces. Each key meet his
single lock. I'm sure.
- Maybe.
An adorable pout enrolled on his face gilded by the candles.
- No, there's no maybe. Michael, our meeting is not a coincidence. Traditionally
we would arrive at this moment. It was written.
I did not answer. I tried to create a diversion.
She sat on my lap and hugged me to her delicate arms. The time at which I had
dreamed had finally arrived.
- You are shy, Michael, but I know cure you of your shyness, she whispered into
my neck.
149 -JUSTES WEDDING
A week later, I married.
Everything went very fast. I had made my decision, as Raoul. In the beautiful
gardens of the Elysee obligingly lent by President Lucinder we celebrated double
wedding, attended by the who's who of politics and show business invited to the
ceremony.
In his black tuxedo floating around her shoulders, Raoul was more than ever like
a hawk about to pounce on its prey, Stefania in this case, little hen cackling
on his arm, in a minidress which highlighted its even more advantageous forms.
I was very relaxed in my midnight blue tuxedo rental. The woman of my life wore
a long dress with train.
Rose was radiant with happiness. Behind Amanda was trying to look good.
Everything had happened so fast!
- Congratulations, congratulations.
Rose and I, Raoul and Stefania, we shook countless hands. I had obviously chosen
to witnesses Raoul and Amandine, my companions of the first hour. In addition, I
had that right to Amandine.
It had taken her passionate statement that I realize the error of my love
focusing, the blindness of my desire. The woman I needed was named Rose.
228
150-JEWISH PHILOSOPHY
"The self is neither a particular point or an intersection of space. It is not

126

the same for all men. It is not identical in the same man at different stages of
its development. In the early stages of life, the existence of the ego is
reduced almost to the life of the body, while the highest levels of intelligence
and spirit are manifested little, if unconsciously. Growing up, every human
being, within its means, is becoming more and more aware of the transcendent
essence of his soul.
This increase is to climb degree after degree wide life of the soul. We move
from the animal soul to get to the living area that we all carry within us. "
Rose to the thirteen petals. Kabbalah of Judaism, Adin Steinsaltz.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francia Razorbak.
151- AS A SIZZLE
The finished party, wedding nights consumed, we resumed the flights. In great
shape, Stefania succeeds immediately three takeoffs. I turned his instructions
on a computer program that reshaping the Ultimate Continent. Thanks to him, we
could examine all angles each plot of land of the dead. Everything looked a bit
like a flared trumpet. Moch 1, 2 Moch, Moch 3, Terra incognita, the references
showed the road already traveled.
In thanatodromes worldwide, teams were busy but ectoplasm who managed to
overcome their memories mired in the red territory fun and often stayed there.
On land, in their chairs, the deceased Thanatonautes affichaients of blissful
smiles, so we began to consider that 3 Moch was in fact the sheer brink of death
and that no one could ever cross and back. The Ultimate Continent retain its
mystery, guarded by a halo of delight. We had so often called orgasm "little
death" after all.
As always really critical turning point, Raoul us together at Père Lachaise.
- My friends, stop here probably our experiences. Even our most talented foreign
competitors remain nailed to 3 Moch.
He looked up at the starlight as if waiting for a new idea to him from heaven
falls.
229
- But I do my best, protested Stefania. But when I come to the third wall, my
umbilical cord is stretched so much that I feel that if I seek slam more.
- We need a new idea, repeated my friend.
Rose sank against me and whispered in my ear
- That may be a mistake, but I found one day a strange phenomenon.
What, dear?
I came to attend the launch of Stefania and I listened to the
radio.
- Yes, so what?
- As her heartbeat slowed, there was suddenly like a crackle in the speaker.
There. By chance, that day, Rose had discovered the first detection system of
the aura.
152 - POLICE SHEET
Name: Solal
Name: Rose
Hair: Black
Blue Eyes
Size: 1 m 70
Distinguishing features: None
Comments: A pioneer of thanatonautique movement. Astronomer and astrophysicist.
Wife and colleague Michael Pinson
Weakness: Scientist

127

153-Mesopotamian Mythology
K There is a plant like the spine
It grows deep water
His thorn prick your hands
As is the rose
If your hands tear this plant
You will find new life. "
The Epic of Gilgamesh.
Excerpt from The My thesis this unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
230
154 - EUREKA!
With the discovery of Rose, all our work was restarted. We started on a new
path. We already knew that the brain waves emitted, for example alpha or beta,
during the phases of sleep and near-sleep. It was therefore logical that a
change in the brain's radio work intervenes at the time of disembodiment.
The following takeoff Stefania was carried out near a transistor. We actually
heard a faint slash, leaving the body was indeed accompanied by the emission of
waves.
Raoul devised a system sensitive to high, low and medium frequencies, to
identify on what wavelength precisely ectoplasm emitted. Stefania gave himself
up to a short meditation, and again, sounds like a slash feulement. We examined
this "trace" on the oscilloscope. This was a very low wavelength, the widely
spaced peaks.
Raoul fiddled with multiple controllers. Surmounted line numbers appeared on the
screen of the oscilloscope. He turned the numbers on a frequency table ... He
left small gamma rays whose peaks are separated only one angstrom, went above
the X-ray and ultraviolet rays beyond. He passed the spectrum of colors visible
to the naked eye and with a crest of a millimeter waves a meter television,
radio waves and came to the beach "brain waves". He still made some adjustments.
- We're dealing with extra long wave spaced over a kilometer, he announced. This
is a very low radio frequency of about 86 kilohertz.
We pushed cries of jubilation. We finally disposions of scientific evidence,
material, extracorporeal activity Thanatonautes. Nobody would now deny the
reality of our experiences.
Informed Lucinder decided on the spot to grant us an extra budget that he took
the black box of the Presidency.
Through instruments more and more sophisticated, we identified precisely the
ectoplasmic footprint Stefania: 86.4 kilohertz. Raoul conceived a flight
detector for the exact second the vital body will Stefania désolidariserait of
his physical body.
Therefore, a question was necessary: where geographically situate
231
Ultimate Continent? While traveling ectoplasm remaining detectable through a
radio system, we must be able to follow its movements. So where was paradise?
Where was this intangible continent which we drew the cards for so long ignoring
its location?
At the top of thanatodrome, I installed a large satellite dish, rather a radio
telescope, five meters in diameter. A beautiful daisy on our penthouse.
A new phase of our conquest of the continent of the dead was open to us. We
entered the "astronomical phase".
Champagne!
155-TIBETAN MYTHOLOGIE

128

Vibration: Any issues, everything vibrates. The vibration varies according to
gender.
Mineral: 5000 vibrations per second.
Plant: 10 000 vibrations per second.
Animal: 20 000 vibrations per second.
Human: 35,000 vibrations per second.
Soul: 49,000 vibrations per second.
At the time of death, the astral body separates from the physical body because
it can withstand the lowering of vibrations of his carnal enveloooe.
: Ducation Bardo Thodol.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
156 - PARADISE IS WHERE ALREADY?
Stefania sat in the lotus position on the flight throne. She knew that today
would be the radio telescope connected and, for the first time, we would try to
follow the flight of his soul.
I still wonder how we could discern something moving at the speed of thought.
Amandine regulated the physiological measurement devices. Raoul plugged his
radio receiver system. As for Rose and I
232
aviors deployed on a large table in terms of constellations surrounding the
Earth.
To think that one of them was perhaps the Paradise ...
Was it a heretical act? Disclose the physical location of the afterlife, that
that would infuriate religions. Ellles already balked Anous see touch their main
customer base!
Stefania lowered eyelids, it was his way of closing the hatches before diving.
His nostrils quivered more slowly.
When she felt that its concentration was sufficient to infuse the calm necessary
for takeoff, she seized the pear switch boosters and mouth uttered softly
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
The trendy radio receiver to the frequency of 86.4 kHz emitted a sort of
complaint. The sound of a "soul taking off!"
In the room, the nervousness was such that Rose squeezed my arm strongly. Death
could be followed to the last trace. Raoul had not wanted to invite the press,
but he verified the proper operation of the camera. We would have at least a
film of the first take-off monitoring.
We waited. Stefania was traveling at the speed of thought but the radio waves do
not travel that fast. The more she pulled away, the more we perceive delayed.
After eight minutes, we obtained an accurate emission allowing a good location
in space.
It was now up to me. I approached the radio telescope control screen. Well we
could win them the signal of the soul of Stefania. I settled several knobs to
locate its distance, its direction, its speed of progression. Beside me, Rose
was engaged in its own observations.
- That's it. I also have the signal.
She grabbed two plastic rules and crossed into the area where she had spotted
the issue, placing it in relation to the polar axis.
- Stefania sinks towards the Great Bear. She just passed Saturn. It goes so fast
it must cross meteorites.
She really traveling at the speed of thought. Hundred times faster than the
speed of light!
- Where is she now?
Eyes glued to the screen, saw Raoul
- Looks like she left the solar system.

129

233
Rose was even more precise
- It doubled Uranus. It ...
- What's happening?
- It goes so fast!
- Where is she?
- She just got out of our solar system. Its signal reaches us very late time
now.
- She left our galaxy?
- No. Rather, it seems even darker toward the center of the Milky Way.
- The center of the Milky Way? But what does it mean?
Rose explained to us by tracing a spiral design.
- Our galaxy is made of a mass of two spiral arms with a diameter of one hundred
thousand light-years. There is everything in there: planets, gas, satellites,
meteors. Our galaxy has one hundred billion stars. His soul might want to visit
a particular ...
- What can she find it?
- Paradise, Hell ... After all, the solar system is located at the outer
periphery of a spiral arm of our galaxy.
We were all listening to the instruments. The slightest trace of crackling was a
fabulous journey of our friend.
- Where is she now? Raoul worried.
- She always took it towards the center of our galaxy.
- That is to say?
Rose resumed its rules, crossed several lines.
- She heads the constellation Sagittarius. Specifically, to the west of this
set.
Paradise would be in the constellation Sagittarius?
I helped Rose in its calculations.
- That way. She dubbed this star. She keeps going.
- It is far?
- Somewhat, yes. In at least fifty billion kilometers. Next to the soul of
Stefania, our rockets and space shuttles our really hang like snails.
- Where is she now?
- She goes to ... To where?
Rose looked at the screen where all sorts of figures marching for several
minutes.
234
- She disappeared. The signal disappeared.
- What do you mean? Raoul panicked.
- There is no longer issued.
In anguish, Rose dropped its rules that fell on the floor with a thud, confusing
in that silence. Amandine, the nurse who kept calm in the most crucial moments,
very professionally checked the physiological state of Stefania.
- She's still alive, 'she whispered.
- How is it possible that the signal is cleared? I thought that if long waves
were moving very quickly and without limits in the universe, I say.
- It's incomprehensible, recognized Rose.
157 - DISTURBING
The body of Stefania did not move and we did not know where his soul was now.
- What are we doing? We try to wake her?
Rose checked all devices.
- Wait ... There is perhaps an explanation for the disappearance of the signal.
Rose actionna its rules and took his computer as its operations become
complicated. She smiled.
- It seems to me that ...

130

Flourishing more, she rushed on the screen.
- Yes, everything matches. That's perfect.
- What did you find? I asked.
I had never seen Rose so excited.
- Stefania has not stopped broadcasting.
- It is a star?
- Not really.
- A planet?
- No more.
- A supernova, a star cluster?
- Nothing like that.
She pointed to the Ultimate Continent map. We watched all this multicolored
funnel narrowed. Together we seized them what she indicated
- A black hole!
235
Rose nodded.
That explained everything. It was easy now to understand why radio signals had
disappeared. Black holes are gigantic vacuum cleaners that swallow everything
that comes within their reach: matter, light, waves ... And even the souls, we
know now!
- A black hole ...
Raoul also seemed plagued him thousands of questions. He expressed a.
- There are dozens of black holes already listed. Why, at the time of death, the
souls are they heading towards it rather than to some other
- This black hole is not any black hole. It is located àl'exact location of the
center of our galaxy, explained Rose.
158 -Manual HISTORY
In 1932, that is to say in the early twentieth century astrophysicist Jan Oort
studied mass of the universe. To do this, he observed the speed of removal of
the stars in the Milky Way disk formed by our galaxy. He thus inferred gravity
propelling then the overall mass. What was his surprise to see that the Milky
Way was not even constituted to visible matter in half!
It was therefore in the sky something very "heavy", with as heavy as all the
visible stars and we could neither detect nor see. This strangeness, he called
it "ghost matter".
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
159-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
"The center from which the Origin produces the most secret light. It is a
purity, diaphaneity, a delicacy that can not understand. When it spreads, it
becomes a bright spot palace that wraps the center. He too is translucent. This
palace, unseen source point, is less transparent than the point
236
original. But this palace spreads the original light of the universe. And from
there, layer upon layer, each form the garment of the previous one, as the
membrane of the brain. "
Zohar, The Book of Splendors.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
160 - PATIENCE
Was God lurking in the depths of a black hole? The beyond-he was not a black

131

hole? I examined one day a photograph of a black hole in a scientific magazine.
It was a bright orange ring with, at its center, a small spot of a less bright
orange. The image reminded me of Raoul riddle: how to draw a circle and its
center without lifting his pencil. I knew now that this was not a simple mind
game.
A circle and its center! Could this be the representation of God, the same
figure of death?
Stefania learned, stunned, on his return, she went through a third of the
diameter of our galaxy to rush into a black hole, placed exactly in the center.
Raoul drew a map to locate it. This was not difficult for him. It was enough to
draw with a compass the circle formed by the two arms of our Milky Way and then
place a point in the middle. Rose however helped. Its astronomer know
complemented our own knowledge of medicine, biology and mystical of all
backgrounds.
She told us that black holes are considered the final stage of a dead star and
with extraordinary densities.
The pressure is such that the Earth if it were drawn, would be compressed to be
transformed into a ball of a cubic centimeter the same weight as our entire
planet!
- The power of black holes is staggering, said Rose. Nothing can escape, neither
matter nor radiation. In addition, they are very difficult to spot. We fail to
see that when the star is swallow. At that time, it emits radiation X that
allows to deduce the location of the black hole, stars whose cemetery that is
the cry of agony.
Or a source of X-rays had been noticed in the center of our galaxy.
Astrophysicists had named Sagittarius A
237
where is. They had calculated that the black hole was a monster with a mass five
million times that of the Sun and its diameter estimated at seven hundred
million kilometers (2.5 light-hours or four times a diameter smaller than that
of our solar system).
Sagittarius A West! This was perhaps the scientific name of the continent from
the dead!
This corner of the universe was little known, although it was the central hub.
We divulguâmes information, without realizing the emotion that would cause
worldwide. Our previous experiments should have served as a warning but Raoul
felt that we had vis-à-vis science homework and too bad for the risks we
encourions.
A Akademgorodok in Siberia, a team of Russian cosmonauts turned a space shuttle
to try to visit our noirParadis hole. How foolish, because if the soul of a
thanatonaute could spin faster than light, it was far from the case of a
spacecraft even more advanced! The sky pirates would need a minimum of five
hundred years, if only to get out of the solar system and at least a thousand
years to reach the nearest black hole! And even if, by unknown means of survival
until they have managed to become millennia, they immediately disappear,
swallowed, never sprayed into the vortex of the black hole.
At the moment, the Russians still roam, occasionally sending location signals
that captures the small receiver, installed on the roof of Death Museum of the
Smithsonian Institute in Washington.
And if they were the only ones and send in the air without further reflection!
In the one month after our discovery of Ultimate Continent, more than one
hundred fifty amateur Thanatonautes, eager to reach Paradise, disappeared
without return.
More seriously, despite all prohibitions and all anathemas, clerics of all
faiths over again departed to assault Moch 3. They had the advantage of having
in Flight Technical already included in their religious practice and operated
rigorously, fully utilizing all revenues from their mythology. Everything was
good to finally break their third comatic wall.
Consolation again, the family shop at the bottom of our thanatodrome, not always
full. Rose became our

132

238
Chief Astronomer. They were his autographs that were most sought this.
161- HISTORY MANUAL
Long men have ignored what was in the very center of their galaxy. They knew
that the universe revolved around them at the speed of 250 million years per
turn, but they did not know about what.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
162 - 4 PIGS
To general astonishment, under the direction of Freddy Meyer rabbi, the team of
liberal yeshiva in Strasbourg passes, the first, the third comatic wall.
Thanatonautes Jews had had a brilliant idea: to work either alone, but in
groups. The Rabbi Meyer had indeed found that most explorers deaths were caused
by the stretching of their umbilical cord, thin, well before slamming approach
Moch 3. Question
what is stronger than a single thread? Answer: three braided son. Accordingly,
it had only to go up in tying together several ectoplasmic cords.
Method: In a first round of three greenhouse rabbis and protects the umbilical
cord of two others who, themselves, protect that of their leader, Meyer, who can
thus advance on the mainland of the dead without breaking.
Meyer's reasoning was pragmatic: six welded elastic are firmer one. So it would
be the case with the umbilical cord.
Obviously there was a risk: a single failure and the entire cake would collapse!
The Strasbourg had however succeeded.
Live on US TV, the Rabbi Meyer announced that beyond Moch 3 stretched a vast
plain. At infinity, the deceased moved slowly in single file in it knew what
expectation.
239
- If my father were still there doing the tail? cried Raoul.
Therefore, he lost all composure. He wanted to meet as soon thanatonaute the
rabbi and his followers. The Strasbourg willingly consented to visit us in our
thanatodrome of ButtesChaumont.
Meyer rabbi, bald little man, sporting a pair of thick black glasses that gave
him strange looks. Surprise
behind glasses, his eyes were closed. As he was slumped in an armchair in the
penthouse, at first I thought he was sleeping but when he began to speak, always
closed eyelids, I understood that this pioneer of infinity was blind. Blind!
- It does not hinder your thanatonauter?
- A ectoplasm need not eyes.
He smiled, his face turned towards me. All he had to hear my voice to know
exactly where I was.
He grabbed my hand and I realized that by this contact, he learned everything
about me. He saw my personality through my palm heat, wetness of my sweat, the
lines on my skin, the shape of my fingers.
- You do not have a white cane, I noticed.
- Not. I may be blind but I am not lame.
His disciples giggled. Obviously, they loved their master and his jokes. Me, the
humor made me ill at ease. People struck blind are supposed to be sad and
overwhelmed and not laughing and pranksters. In addition, this was a religious
scholar and a scholar, so a serious man par excellence.
Suspicious, Raoul made his long hands hovering a few centimeters from his
glasses. Meyer protested impassively
- Stop waving your fingers. You cause an air current and it may catch cold.
- You will not really see anything?

133

- No, but I'm not complaining. I might be deaf. That's got to be a pain.
His students were ecstatic. He continued, more seriously
- You know, we find more interesting information in the sounds into images.
Before being blind rabbi, I was choreographer and has always, I enjoyed playing
the piano. It's a Bach fugue that gave me the idea to weave the umbilical cords.
240
The rabbi walked unaided to the piano, pulled the stool and sat down. Almost
mathematical music resounded under the canopy, enchanting green plants in our
tropical setting.
- Listen to this passage. You receive both voice?
I closed my eyes to hear better. Indeed, so focused, I discerned two voices
overlapped. Meyer commented
- Bach was a genius of the braid. By mixing two voices, it gives the illusion of
creating a third that does not exist and yet is richer than the sum of the
previous two. This technique applies to all, for music, for writing, for
painting and whatnot? Keep your eyes closed.
I thought of the discovery that allowed me to put the defeat moineectoplasme.
The eyes sometimes prevent seeing. By forcing myself to the darkness, I
understood better what the rabbi. He fingered notes. Two voices coexisted but
the air we heard was like no. For me, music had hitherto constituted a
background, sometimes pleasant, sometimes unpleasant, of existence. To seize
suddenly as a pure science was an upheaval. I had never done that hearing, I
learned àécouter.
Freddy Meyer laughed without stop playing.
- Excuse me, when I'm happy I can not help but laugh.
Amandine placed a Bloody Mary on the piano. The rabbi paused to drink. We all
considérions with the same look ecstatic that his followers. Then he told us his
journey.
Moch past 3 stretched a vast and crowded area. In an immense cylindrical plain,
crammed with cut ectoplasm cords. There were billions of dead waiting patiently
in an orange plain where they appeared in transit. They were there like a long
river, moving slowly. They were flying over, they trudged. It was easy to fly
over. In the center of the river, the deceased huddled in clusters wiry. They
moved a little faster at the periphery, coming together to discuss their
previous life. Scholars disputed the primacy of their inventions. Actresses
bickered about the quality of their interpretations. Writers critics unkindly
their respective works. But most of the dead were content to move slowly. Some
appeared there for an eternity. Of course, as in all
241
crowds, there were people to look to double everyone jostling!
Well, after the third comatic wall, there was this gigantic tail. Perhaps the
dead were they subjected to a test of time? Maybe did they teach them patience?
Their movements were slow. They stood there doing nothing, just waiting.
- The test of time ... It is perhaps this hell, I say.
- Yes, but in any case, not for us. Not for Thanatonautes. We, we are able to
fly over the myriads of dead that clutter the orange cylinder. Besides, the
country is quite nice, a bit similar to what I was told photos taken of Mars.
There there, around the central river of the dead, the banks, hillsides and off
a light as a wonderful sun. A so attractive sun and towards which flows the
stream of the dead ... Yet I did not venture too far in the fourth territory. I
was afraid of me stuck in time while my friends rabbis, the poor, waiting for me
in the hallway ... Red pleasures.
Raoul Razorbak wrote down as and measures about Freddy Meyer
- Tell us more precisely this area, I beg you, rabbi.
- The more we advance, the more the atmosphere warms. Over the cylinder walls
turn quickly. I felt like being locked in a mill idling, knowing that deep down
I would be crushed. This sensation of speed contrasts sharply with patience and
slowness demanded souls that are there. That these walls would spin so quickly

134

rather the urge to run and to move as quickly and yet it is impossible!
- This is due to the centrifugal force of the black hole, Rose pointed.
Amandine wondered
- Your ectoplasm actually collects the heat and speed?
- Yes, miss. We do not suffer but we feel them.
The rabbi lifted and rested the black cap on his head, displaying its perpetual
baby air. He touched all the objects around him as a much rattles. He had felt,
probably stronger than me, seductive note in the voice of Amanda but he did not
take offense. This small Jewish smile, hilarious, such a big Buddha.
- You have not been impressed by the spectacle of all these deaths? asked the
pretty blonde, very appreciative.
242
- Oh, after the first few billion, it's like anything, you get used, he said
soberly.
Raoul took the card. With satisfaction, he vanished for the push, the entry
Terra incognita and noted the indications of Rabbi Meyer.
The red territory ends with 3 leading Moch
TERRITORY 4
- Location: coma plus 27 minutes.
- Orange color.
- Sensations: fight against time, waiting room, "sky" turning point, immense
plain. Drafty area, windswept. Dead billion, advancing in single file into a
vast river of gray (normal, it is formed from ectoplasm). It faces over time. We
learn patience. You would meet with the famous dead.
- Rabbi, do you have "seen" the end of the corridor? inquired Amandine.
- Call me Freddy, please. And feel free àprononcer the verb "to see". As
qu'ectoplasme I see perfectly. Out of his body, we do not suffer any disability.
Finally, to answer your question, yes, I saw at the bottom, right before On
several hundred meters, another wall. Moch 4?
- Was it narrower than 3 Moch asked Raoul.
- Barely. Moch 4 should be three quarters the diameter of 3 Moch.
Raoul noted.
- The curve of the funnel is therefore tangent. The more we advance, the more
the trumpet becomes hose. One more question, Rabbi ...
- Call me, Freddy.
- Okay. Tell me, Freddy, would not you not seen in the queue a man of about
forty, with a wick like this, glasses, a quickdraw like mine and his hands still
in his pockets?
For once, Freddy did not laugh.
- Talk about a relative of yours?
- From my father, Raoul murmured, so low that we had barely àl'entendre. He died
there nearly thirty years.
- Thirty years ... Freddy sighed. I think you do not have good
243
understood my words. There were billions of dead in that queue. How could I
consider them one by one? How could I distinguish your father among this immense
flock?
- That's right, Raoul blushed. My question was stupid. But my father died so
early and I was still so young ... He left, taking his mystery.
- And if that mystery was precisely your legacy? said the rabbi. By abandoning
you in doubt, he left you the engine which resulted eventually all your
endeavors.
- You really believe?
The Strasbourg giggled again.
- How to know? At times I tend to confuse a little psychoanalysis and Cabal! The

135

two are often linked. You are surely more than I stalled it.
Raoul sighed
- I have so much to ask him ... It was he who first took the idea of
thanatonautique.
The disciples broke the malaise that was introduced with claiming visit our
thanatodrome. They examined our compliance with propulsion gear. They were
content to meditation and a decoction of bitter roots. We showed them how to
detect the precise moment of takeoff through our wave gamma receptor, how we
programmions returns through an electric timer also making Security Office.
They were passionate.
- With these devices, we will further improve our performance! exclaimed the old
sage.
Another synergy. Our mutual talents would be added to exceed the sum. Two
different ways of thinking. Two melodies that would unite to create new music.
163 - POLICE SHEET
Name: Meyer
First name: Freddy
White Hair
Blue Eyes
Size: 1 m 60
Distinguishing features: Rabbi, permanently wears a skullcap
244
Comment: A pioneer of thanatonautique. Inventor of the technique of braided
cords that allowed the crossing of Moch 3
Weakness: Blind
164 -CÉCITÉ AND CLAIROYANCE
We lodged six rabbis from the yeshiva in Strasbourg in the first floor
apartments. On the ground floor, they exercised Ade new choreography to build
more solidly cords to their next flights.
One after another, they took off from the chair of our thanatodrome. When they
were familiar with our methods, we installed new starting thrones, and they
resumed their collective flights.
Stefania often went with them, sometimes making the tip of the ectoplasmic
pyramid. To see them take off and come back together, they all seemed to have
fun up there. Freddy was still laughing when he awoke, as if he had to pay a
good slice!
His gaiety disturbed me. Freddy was not only rabbi, but blind and old. Three
reasons to exercise more outfit! And then I did not understand that one can
thanatonauter jokingly. Death, it was still something scary.
I had always taken the death and love seriously. Both require gravity. Women
swoon have always presented pain masks.
Once, after landing, I heard the rabbi tell a joke rather ribald. "They are two
old people who remember a hotel where, after dinner, we are treated to a rather
unusual spectacle. An artist released his sex and, using it as a mallet, break
of a sudden three nuts. They come back a little later, the show goes on. The
artist has aged but it is still there. This time he breaks not three but three
normal nuts coconut. In the end, the two old will see the man in his dressing
room and ask him why he made that exchange and meet the artist. "Ah! You know
what it is, with age, the eyesight. "N
The others laughed. I was a little shocked.
The rabbi, despite its function, take death lightly, faced me. I said, made the
remark.
- Someone, somewhere, has interpreted in May the divine word,
245

136

said he. A somewhat deaf prophet realized "God is love" instead of "God is
humor!" Everything is funny, including death. How could I accept my blindness
without humor? We must laugh at everything and without restraint.
- This guy is a little weird, I say to Stefania.
She was not with me. The Tibetan meditation allowed him to better understand the
Alsatian wise. Freddy had finished with its cycle of reincarnations. This would
be his last life. It would then no longer a pure mind, free from all suffering.
He therefore had nothing to prove. He was appeased now. In previous migrations
of his soul, he had known love, art, science, compassion. Now it almost touched
the absolute knowledge. It was his deep serenity emanated this contagious
bonhomie. As for his jokes, though they shocked me was because I myself had
banned the stuffed head.
It was true that around the rabbi floated like an aura of beneficial waves. If
Stefania was right, I envied. I wish, too, have done with my life cycle.
Understand everything beyond appearances. Having a soul at peace. Alas, I was
still young on this earth. I probably was only my hundredth or two hundredth
incarnation. My karma was still thirsty for knowledge and conquest.
Fortunately Freddy did not begrudge her deliver us know! In the evening we were
gathered around him in the penthouse and he told us seriously this time, stories
of the Cabal and we taught the secret meaning of words and numbers.
- According to Kabbalah, we are all immortal, death is a stage of inner
development which will determine the next phase of our existence. Death is only
a threshold. It opens a door to another life. For us to be the most lucid and
serene as possible! Fear, confusion, denial of death are the worst states we can
know. More being is at peace, the more it is able to smoothly accomplish a
successful transition to another world. It is written in the Zohar: "Blessed is
he who dies clear consciousness Death is just the passage from one house to
another if we are wise, we will do our next home a more beautiful home..." And
Rabbi Elimelech of the Lizensk, always so cheerful, cried
"Why do not I would rejoice, knowing that I'm about to leave this world to enter
the upper world of eternity?"
246
Amandine ate it thanatonaute eyes which, among all, had advanced as far as
possible in the Ultimate Continent. She was surprised that belief in
reincarnation is part of the Jewish religion.
- It is a secret teaching, explained the little bald man shaking his cap.
Moreover, few rabbis who share my ideas. I am a reformist, liberal and
Kabbalist. In other words, I wreaking havoc on Judaism.
- Still, insisted Amandine, there is a procedure in your religion to die?
- Of course. The dying are instructed to close the doors of their senses, to
focus on the psychic center of the heart and stabilize their breath. So it is
written in the Zohar, the soul will take the highest of all paths.
The highest of all roads ... We fell silent, trying to imagine.
- You use meditation to take off. What is your technique? Stefania asked. Is you
own or have you also taken from your teachings?
- Our method comes from the ancient times. We call the Tzimtzum. The prophet
Ezekiel was already served, seven centuries before Christ. The Rabbi Aaron Roth
then codified in the Treaty on the agitation of the soul, followed later by
Maimonides and Rabbi Isaac Luria. Tzimtzum means "withdrawal". Tzimtzum to
meditate so, you must become a moment as outside his body, watching from afar
and observe everything that happens to him.
- How do you manage in practice?
- We focus on our breathing and specifically on the action of the air on our
blood and the action of the blood on our body.
- Your method is not very different from mine commented Stefania, Tibetan
Buddhist.
Freddy laughed heartily.
- Yes, but if it is resolutely modern, we can décorporer many other ways.
Nothing beats a baked good or a lot of legs in the air!

137

Chill.
- Ah, Freddy! You can never stop joking, protested half Amandine.
247
- No, he said very seriously. All acts of our lives are sacred acts: eat, drink,
breathe, make love, as many ways to honor God and the life he has given us!
Distinguishing expression in empty eyes behind the thick black glasses? A
child's smile lit his face wrinkled when the rabbi recited aphorisms, he pointed
out, he had learned from his spiritual master, Rabbi Nachman of Bratslav the
- This is a great duty to always be in joy, away from all our strengths and
bitter sadness. All diseases that rely on humans are caused degradation of joy.
Celleci comes from a distortion of the "deep song" (nigun) and ten vital rhythms
(Defiquim). When joy and singing go out, the disease takes hold of man. Joy is
the greatest remedies. So we find in us only positive and we attach to it. Hair
on the nose.
With that, he claimed to Amandine favorite drink, a Bloody Mary, swallowed in
one gulp and said it was time for him and his followers to lie.
165 - Decorporation
Rose and I decided one evening we décorporer accordance with Freddy's teachings.
After we contented light foods for dinner, we lay on the ground, even to the
synthetic carpet. We concentrâmes us on our breathing and blood bathed our
organization.
Always following the directions Freddy, if a cramp arose, we absorbed our pain
before you forget and, whenever our mind wandered, we reduced the void in us
thinking only control our breath.
We thus spent half an hour motionless on the floor, back compote before being
taken together with laughter. Apparently, Jewish meditation, it was not our cup
of tea.
Mutine Rose nibbled my ear
- Freddy also spoke about most enjoyable ways to get out of his body.
I stroked her long black hair
- I do not like both get drunk. Alcohol does not bring me happiness, nothing but
a famous nausea and headache!
248
- Still another technique, she said, stretching his aching limbs voluptuously
before rushing into my arms.
Nimbly, we undressed each other.
- It is said that, to meditate well, we must get rid of everything that weighs
us, reminded my wife.
- It is said that in order to meditate, we must feel the blood pounding in his
temples. And I feel it, I replied, incorrigibly scientist.
- It is said that, to meditate well, it is important to lie down comfortably on
a bed, Rose said, leading me towards our domestic soft layer.
Our bodies embraced each other and gradually united our minds to joy. Both our
carnal envelopes stretched timidly out of our burning carcasses to merge over
our heads during a few seconds of ecstasy.
166-PHILOSOPHY AUROVILLIENNE
"Evolution is not to become more holy or more intelligent or more happy. The
Evolution of becoming more and more conscious. It takes a long time before they
can handle the truth old lives. The more the psychic body grows, his memories
become clear mental Two Lives.
Death is no longer the grinning mask that reminds us that we did not but found a
quiet passage from one mode of experience to another. Until one day we will have
grown enough to infuse enough consciousness in the body so that it makes our
immortal spirit. "

138

167 - LOSS
Satprem, Sri Aurobindo or the Adventure of Consciousness.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
Raoul had drawn the galaxy by placing at its center a sort of sink trumpet
mouth. The Ultimate Continent. What he had in there
249
pleasant in this location is that it responded to the natural need of humans
always had to know the center of the world. Successively, they believed that it
was a city and a country, then the Earth and the sun. We now know that the
system was only a trifle, on the outskirts of a huge galaxy, which was centered
a vacuum shredder everything and even souls.
God he was staying there? Were there gods and carpet in the center of millions
of galaxies that make up the universe? Just thinking about it made me dizzy.
What a headache!
President Lucinder came to inspect the new layout of our thanatodrome. We now
disposions of eight flight armchairs, for Stefania, others for Meyer and his
followers.
Placing the National Assembly before the extent of our inroads into the Ultimate
Continent, the head of state had managed to unlock a real war budget for
thanatonautique. He would not have àjongler between black box and Veterans
Affairs and we could acquire an astronomical radio antenna of a gigantic size.
Thus, we could finally see many souls bound for the hereafter and not just the
ectoplasm of our companions.
Curious, Lucinder then asked to attend a grouped flight. Freddy drew to his face
that his band would perform there. The President remarked that she looked like a
round of paratroopers standing by the leg. Freddy assented, but said he had to
take care to weave more umbilical cords.
- You should come with us, President.
- Thank you, answered our protector. I have been here once but I think is more
useful to the cause of thanatonautique being head of state rather qu'ectoplasme.
The team sat in protective bubbles. All in lotus position and dressed in their
white uniforms, they
nants.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
Eight slash crackled one after the other in the radio receiver. Stefania was the
first part. Normal, she would be up there at the top of the scaffolding.
I déclenchai my stopwatch, placed relief timers on "coma over fifty minutes,"
then, thanks to our satellite dish, we followed the path of our souls commando.
There was almost an hour to wait. On playful, Lucinder proposed a game of cards.
We sat around a
were quite impressive
2S0
pedestal for a gin rummy, while eyeing from time to time to control screens.
Raoul was the first to spring from his chair, knocking almost.
- A rabbi is dead! if he exclaimed.
- What! What? Lucinder took fright.
I discovered with panic as the electrocardiogram and electroencephalogram of a
member of the yeshiva in Strasbourg were flat.
- It had to happen a disaster, there!
- They would have passed the fourth wall to fall into a hellish world?
I shook my head.
- Impossible. It is only "coma more twenty-seven minutes." They are still in the
second area, the Black Country.

139

I rushed out of all control instruments. All fleshly bodies were nervous. What a
tragedy-they knew, there? Amandine felt the pulse of the seven survivors. She
shuddered. A second rabbi had left us!
- I do not understand, she said, wringing her hands. They have already passed
through this area many times without problems. They were soon to weave their
cords ...
In the laboratory, the atmosphere was not full of anxiety. Raoul was riveted to
the pulse of Stefania. I concentrated on radio receivers. It was weird. There
were plenty of signals and they did not correspond to those of all our friends.
Were we confronted Ades parasitic souls, pirates souls? Some higher authority
could she decided to cut the "road beyond"?
We would check these assertions later. For now, it was urgent to limit the
carnage and bring our friends as fast before they all pass away.
Together We hurried to trigger the timers. Six furious Thanatonautes
successively opened their eyes. All trembled with anger. Stefania seemed even
mimic a struggle.
- What has happened? What has happened?
Hardly, she uttered a name
- The Hashishins!
251
168 -History HASCHISCHINE
There once were men who thought they had found paradise on earth: the
Hashishins.
Are known under the name "Hashishins" Ismaili followers of the reform of Hasan
i-Sabbah. They were so named because they ate a lot of hashish before embarking
on suicide bombers. Their fame is such that they are at the origin of the French
word "assassin".
The sect originated from a branch of Shiite Islam. Its members declared
themselves supporters of Muhammad's nephew, who, being a descendant of the
Prophet by women, was not recognized by all Muslims.
Reportedly the Venetian traveler Marco Polo (1323) and many Persian historians,
Hashishins lived in the fortress of Alamut, at 1800 meters above sea level in
the Mazenderan, south of the Caspian Sea. Confined to their mountains and does
not have the resources to engage in conventional warfare, they imagined to send
commandos of six men (fidawis) charged with stabbing enemy leaders, usually
while they were engaged in their devotions in mosques.
The master of the assassins was sacred "Old Man of the Mountain." The first of
these was obviously Hasan i-Sabbah, the founder of the sect.
Those appointed to commit the murders were anesthetized with hashish introduced
in their food as a paste mixed with rose jam. The Old Man of the Mountain spoke
to them at length and men slept because hashish is a soporific drug and not
exciting. Sleepy, they were transported to a secret garden, deep in the fortress
of Alamut. When they awoke, they would gather surrounded by young slaves, girls
and boys, eager to make all their sexual desires. They had arrived in rags. They
discovered in green silk dress embellished with gold and son, all around, it was
paradise: vermeil tableware, sweet wines galore, roses with delicate perfumes,
hashish at will. Drugs, sex, alcohol, luxury and pleasure! They were convinced
of being in the gardens of Allah, especially since this place was a particularly
rare oasis in an arid, mountainous region.
Then they were again anesthetized paste hashish, and then brought back to the
starting point in their old castoffs. The
252
Old Man of the Mountain declared their while, with his powers, they had had a
chance to sneak taste Allah's Paradise. To them to return permanently dying
warriors! The smile, the fidawis then went obediently murder viziers and
sultans. Arrested, they walked to execution, the ecstatic face.
There was that priests haschischins high level (sixth degree) to know the secret

140

gardens of Allah false.
The sect was first occupied its own interests by promoting the message of Hasan
i-Sabbah. Then the Old Man of the Mountain found that their fanatical henchmen
could pay big dividends. They rented their services to the highest bidder. The
assassins rushed to volunteer when their leader asked: "Which of you will rid me
of this or that?" Thus perished, among others, the poet ACMA, daughter of
Marwan, who had dared to speak ill of his allies of Medina, which immediately
appealed to the mercenary arms haschischins.
The fortress of Alamut was conquered in 1253 by the great Mongol Hulagu Khan,
the great Chinese general Mongkha khan. The assassins had beautiful claiming the
support of sultans they had helped, they were careful not to intervene too happy
to get rid of these dangerous troublemakers.
The massacred haschischins could verify that they had known that ersatz
paradise. An artificial sacred world, made by men for Complacency.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
169-MERCENARY OF BEYOND
- We were attacked by pirates ectoplasm explained Stefania, still panting,
shivering under his uniform heavy breasts. They were twenty, hidden behind the
first somatic wall. Taking advantage of the surprise, they cut their teeth cords
Lucien and Albert.
Freddy was surprised to discover that the world of ectoplasm has its own
standards. In dreams, people can fight well and blood flow. Similarly, in the
Ultimate Continent, ectoplasm similar can fight them and cut their umbilical
cords land. He had just discovered but
253
not know how to explain the phenomenon. Maybe it was enough to show hatred or
aggression to cause violence? In any case, the two poor rabbis had been properly
drawn into the light at the bottom of the funnel.
And how Stefania and Freddy could they so easily designate their attackers as
"haschischins"? Transmission of thought between souls. Meyer had first believed
in a battle organized by the Arabs. Reflex Manichean: Arabs against Jews, it
would have been too simple. Those were the last descendants of haschischins,
which saw in this attack against the rabbis a great way to wake up the holy war
and self-designation as the spearhead of the conquering Islam. They would ensure
that the skirmish know wide publicity in the Muslim world.
Stefania était furious.
- They threw themselves on us. They grabbed us. They tried to break our cords
pulling a sharp blow or by wrapping them on their ankle. The surprise past, we
fought!
- And oddly, even! Freddy adds. We in turn dispatched ad patres three of these
pirates. They now know that we do not let ourselves be "murder" without
reacting.
The fight had taken place a little like a battle between underwater frogmen,
except that instead of cutting the compressed air supply tube, it was to
sabotage the silver cords. Around, the dead of the day to see effaraient
Thanatonautes kill each other!
President Lucinder, although it had decided to stop smoking for three days
already, seized one of biddies cigarette Raoul.
- In the long term, he said, exhaling fragrant eucalyptus scrolls, it will
declare the Ultimate Continent "demilitarized zone." Whoever penetrate charged
with warlike intentions will be immediately expelled.
- By battalions UN ectoplasm? Stefania sneered.
- For now, we are powerless. Everyone has the right to get up there, including
haschischins, and we are unable to control the ground. We can not start a
conflict, even local, to protect an Ultimate Continent altogether belongs to
everyone.
I had never thought about the diplomatic aspects

141

254
our exploration. Typically, pioneers planted the flag of their country on the
territory they discovered. Thus were born the colonies. First came the
explorers, then the pioneers, then commercial and finally administrators. By
dint of territorial wars, we will at drawing new boundaries, sometimes drawn
with a ruler as for many African countries. But we had scored in any areas that
we had penetrated, so the Ultimate Continent was now the property of any nation.
Obviously, the premie rs AUSER of force to seize risked becoming the masters.
Like the Wild West, it would be that the dégainerait faster!
Naive as I was, I had always imagined that men and women experienced in
meditation and able to risk their lives on our flight seats could only be good
people, animated by the sole concern of reducing the limits of knowledge.
Gone are the adventure, finished the stunt of death, finished mystical dreamers!
With the popularization of takeoffs, recurrence up there all the problems we had
taken so long to solve icibas. In the hereafter, any sect, any horde of
fanatics, any scoundrels band proved as powerful a State. Some haschischins
representing only fifty brainless murderers were threatening to capture
Paradise, simply because they were the first to have had the idea to take it by
force!
How to counter?
The president seemed discouraged Lucinder
- Prudence, my friends. It is important to avoid any diplomatic or political
incident with Lebanon, Iran and even Saudi Arabia.
Stefania indignant
- But neither Iran or Lebanon or Saudi Arabia would support haschischins. They
are the enemies of all Arabs.
- Even other Shiites hate and despise them, adds a survivor rabbi.
- Go figure! Lucinder almost groaned. The Saudis have made up his mind to build
a gigantic thanatodrome not far from Mecca. Which mercenaries could they appeal
to take the lead of the race? Now they are our main suppliers of oil and we can
not afford us to get angry with them, even for a few little problems
thanatonautique.
255
- But that's life and death it is, Rose protested.
- Sorry, my children, but I must first worry about the seven billion beings on
our planet have the soul well pegged to the body and, in particular, of the
seventy million people of which more than half voters who, in our country,
circulate in cars traveling through oil, dress in fabric from oil, heat up the
oil, if ...
- In this case, if we dénichions a Saudi emir ready to ally with us? I asked
point blank.
- In this case, white card! said the head of state in largely open arms.
170-THEOLOGY QURANIC
"God has assigned to them a rank higher than these. He made promises to all but
destined to combatants still greater reward than those who remain in their
homes."
Surat IV, 97.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
171- IS IT COMPLICATED
The haschischins were only the precursors of a religious war that we did not
anticipate. Certainly, at the beginning of our experiments, we had seen rival
clergy eagerness to get the first in the world of the dead, but we had never
imagined that the conflict may take such magnitude.

142

Hindus against Muslims, Protestants against Catholics, Buddhists against Shinto,
Jews against Islamists: it was the first major faiths who grabbed the edge of
Ultimate Continent. Dissidents then went running and worried autonomy
brotherhoods: Iranian Shiites against Syrian Sunnis, Dominicans against the
Jesuits, the Tzu Taoist line against supporters of Chiang Tzu, Lutherans against
Calvinists, Jews against ultra-liberal and anti-Zionist Orthodox Jews, Mormons
against Amish, Jehovah's Witnesses against Seventh-day Adventists, adherents of
the Moon sect against followers of Scientology!
256
I did not know theology mattered so many shades. J e discovered
q'il were so many divisions between human religions that it was useless to hope
that believers of all faiths would end up there one day by the desire of
ecumenism.
While ectoplasm to ambushes and were killing in the name of their faith, I
reread the notes where Raoul had carefully listed all mythologies and theologies
of the world and noticed that in fact there were many commonalities between them
. It seemed that all sought to tell the same story and pass the same knowledge
by using different words and parables.
The conflict embittered heaven soon to have its repercussions here below.
Haschischins of terrorists launched a car packed with explosives against our
thanatodrome. We owed our salvation to the awkwardness Artificer who had not
adjusted his bombs, which exploded with him a hundred meters from our building.
With his customary composure, Raoul meets us in our penthouse. We were now too
numerous to spread us on slabs of Pere Lachaise.
He displayed a map Ultimate Continent.
- It is natural that religions want to conquer the land of the dead because it
takes control the spiritual world will also master the material world. Imagine
that Pakistani Muslims win, they block the reincarnation cycles of Indian
Buddhists!
Stefania had become a combat specialist ectoplasmic. She had developed all kinds
of parades to protect its own silver cord.
- Do not overlook the possibilities of alliance, even the most unexpected, she
said. We lost two rabbis friends during our last flight, but thanks to the
support of the Bedouin Muslims, we have killed a dozen haschischins rabid. We
must therefore rise only group powerful enough to put our enemies to flight and
continue our exploration. After all, that's what counts!
- Instead of starting at six or seven, take off at ten or twenty ... said Raoul
thoughtfully.
- Exactly, strongly emphasized Stefania. It is always the more earning. Why not
fly to fifty or even a hundred?
257
- All right, Freddy noticed, but there is no Thanatonautes hundred rabbis.
- Why confine the rabbis? I said. It may be time to make such comparisons. I
found, for example, that the Cabal and the I Ching had much in common.
The Italian applauds the idea. Up there, it would serve us ambassador.
A week later, twenty Asian novices who, at first glance resembled like so many
drops of water, knocked at the door of our thanatodrome. They belonged to the
monastery of Shao-lin, a place where one specifically for millennia teaches that
religion go together and fight. Shaolin Monks are well known to be the leading
experts in kung fu. They are the source of science and practice of martial arts.
They married forever war and meditation.
Freddy contemplated with delight ectoplasmic new choreographies. He either ran a
commando but a war squadron can be grouped into flying fortress formation.
He named Heavenly army the army of the Alliance, the alliance between all
religions goodwill.
172 Hasidic -History

143

The child looked at the old man who danced and seemed to dance for eternity.
- Grandpa, why you dance well?
- You see, my child, man is like a top. Dignity, nobility and balance, it
affects them in motion. The man is to discard, never forget.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
173 - WARS
We had not been the only ones to look for allies. The haschischins which seemed
to hate us personally found themselves too unusual associates. They named their
army "Coalition"
258
and gathered in the thanatodrome they had implanted in the heart of their
ancient fortress of Alamut. For starters, they bound him with Shinto Yasukuni
temple monks.
It is here, in this sacred place near Tokyo, are honored that the souls of
fallen soldiers 2 464151 in all the wars of imperial Japan.
Anyway, most monks liberal rabbis of Shao-lin against muftis haschischins more
monks Yasukuni, hostilities slowed seriously exploring the Ultimate Continent.
There were terrible battles, like that of May 15, when two hundred soldiers of
the Alliance faced six hundred followers of the Coalition. Freddy, Freddy
peaceful, improvised for the occasion what can only be described as first
ectoplasmic control strategy.
He sent a small group of Taoist and rabbis scouts while the bulk of the allied
army was hidden behind the first somatic wall, facing the bubble memories. The
fight was so hot around the edges of the corolla that the Confederates in forgot
the existence of Moch 1. As soon as the Allies engouffrèrent it, they chased
them into each other in the umbilical cord for protection. The bad encounter
that awaited them was not what they had expected. Indeed, it was not the Allies
but bullessouvenirs that assailed them.
Our men took advantage of the surprise as much as possible to cut umbilical
cords. Three hundred Confederates, haschischins ahead and charged down that day
to the light.
Allied sides are resigned to deplore a hundred of what to be called "dead."
Freddy found that if the victory had been altogether easy, it was because the
past rabbis and men of Shao-lin was definitely much clearer than that of
haschischins. They had not encouraged the massacres in Lebanon, practiced
terrorist attacks of all kinds. They did not have to keep their former victims
along their present enemies.
Paradoxically, these ectoplasmic wars gave conquer beyond his true acclaim.
Across the world, religions experienced renewed fervor along, alas! the fanatics
became more numerous. Some sects even tried to take the opportunity to rise to
the rank of recognized religion. It was enough of a squad to jeopardize the
representatives of an established religion. Fortunately, people par259
were naked for the Ultimate Continent. They had no opportunity to take with them
weapons, machine guns, guns or even knives. Otherwise, given the ferocity of the
tussles would have been the killing of clerics.
Without photos and movies in the early newspapers and television talked little
ectoplasmic wars. But always at the forefront of information on the matter,
Little Thanatonaute shown had the idea to send his reporter Maxime Villain.
Former Trappist monk remained silent a long time, this reporter had acquired a
fantastic visual memory. If some beings are transmitters, he always taciturn,
was a receiver. It all TV reception and then restored to its readers. For them,
ectoplasmic first reporter, he scribbled some images of the terrible fighting

144

that took place in the Hereafter. Finally a clean war and safe for the average
citizen. While sitting in their chairs, quiet fans were passionate for the
invisible conflict.
Nevertheless it required ever greater numbers. In our thanatodrome ButtesChaumont, we were obliged to abandon our private apartments to make way for an
amount of off thrones. Fifty clerics Alliance now had to at least take off
simultaneously if we wanted to triumph over the enemy.
The building was transformed into a veritable Tower of Babel. It sounded foreign
languages and often unintelligible to each other but united in the same desire
to conquer the afterlife, representatives of different faiths got along
àmerveille were doing and to exchange technical meditations and prayers .
The Alliance became every day more heterogeneous. Liberal rabbis to Taoist monks
and Buddhist sages early, added to Ivorian animist marabouts, Turkish Muftis,
Shinto monks leading Hokkaido (traditional enemies of Shinto monks of Yasukuni
Shrine), Greek whirling dervishes even three Inuit shamans, witches six
aborigines of Australia, Bushman eight sorcerers, a Philippine healer, a Pygmy
we never tablets beliefs and a wise Cheyenne. Our army and included over two
hundred pious soldiers living proof that it is possible to establish perfect
harmony between all terrestrial time.
A serene atmosphere prevailed in the penthouse, meeting place
260
all our little world. Away from the rigors of their monasteries, our devotees
exchanged pleasantries college. For my part, I tried to look good by proposing
an enigma
- You know how to draw a circle and its axis without lifting his pen?
Monks and rabbis were passionate for this challenge to common sense.
- Impossible! they ended by exclaiming.
- Neither more nor less than the thanatonautique I replied dryly before you show
them the solution.
Behind, I heard Raoul, always ahead of an enigma, a debit attentive audience the
charade of Victor Hugo
- My first is talkative. My second is a bird. My third is to coffee. My whole is
a pastry.
Here was matter for discussion. Especially because the solution seemed simple.
While Freddy was playing Gershwin on the piano and Amandine its scientists
concocted cocktails, I racked my brains, "My first is talkative A magpie pie
But, this is also my second, the bird ...?. And who, what, is in a cafe: a
drunk, a server, a beer? "
174-ISLAMIC MYTHOLOGIE
According to Islamic tradition, Paradise is huge and sprawls out over eight
cylindrical circles. Irrigated by four rivers, it is a delightful place. There
bask the first four caliphs, the first ten men converted to Islam by the Prophet
and his daughter Fatima. All have seventy pavilions covered with gold and
precious stones. Each house includes seven hundred beds occupied by seven
hundred houris. Seven animals found place in Paradise: the camel Elijah, the ram
of Abraham, the whale of Jonah, the mare Borak, the ant and the hoopoe Solomon,
the dog of the Seven Sleepers.
The Prophet offers its guests various pleasures but of infinite sensuality.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
261
175-THE BATTLE OF PARADISE
Ecumenical and friendly atmosphere of our thanatodrome not made us forget the
reality of hard fighting a conflict that was just beginning.
The Alliance and the Coalition had launched a war without thank you. Every day

145

our Thanatonautes awoke sweating, trembling in every limb and announcing new
losses. Freddy Meyer, our rabbi choreographer promoted warlord, decided that it
was time to launch our great offensive. The famous "Battle of Paradise" took
place in the year 2065 AD. Raoul, Pink, Amandine and I followed her our best
with our satellite dish but we could only see the turmoil that reigned among the
souls. Maxime Villain gave later in his journal. a pretty good relationship.
Here
BATTLE IN HEAVEN
While the fog created by dying stars thickens around the gaping vortex of the
black hole called Paradise, I see advancing army of Freddy Meyer rabbi, his
strong affable Chinese monks, its peaceful Buddhist , impressive Cheyenne
sorcerers and marabouts joyful African animists. Their group is welded. The
Alliance's legions have brought their ectoplasm so keep in check their most
unheard opponents.
The Coalition troops emerge a few minutes later. In first line, hover Shinto
monks such terrible bombers ready to decimate the umbilical cords. In karate
position, they spin the edge of their hands as much false invincible. Behind
them, arranged in two wings of haschischins chuckle while Dominican chant
prayers.
The sky teeming with souls. On both sides, reinforcements arrive from all
thanatodromes the world. First, nearly 1200 rabbis, animists, Buddhists, Taoists
and Kabbalists. On the other, two thousand three hundred Shinto monks, shamans,
haschischins and Dominicans.
At the head of the Alliance, Rabbi Meyer communicates telepathically commanding
his troops. Among the allies, General Shiku, great Japanese strategist,
transmits the same instructions. Note that since their defeat on 15 May, his
souls have learned to control their most painful memories in order to not be
victims immediately from the black area.
262
Anyway, they decided this time to stay OUTSIDE of Paradise to better control the
passage of umbilical cords enemies. The Allies, meanwhile, were placed near
doors to have their backs to the light, they hope, will attract and will blind
their opponents.
Shiku and the Old Man of the Mountain give the signal to the load by taking
their umbilical cord with the whole hand. The haschischins break on the wing
essentially defended by animists and Cheyenne wizards. Liberal rabbis rush to
their rescue but were stopped by Shinto monks who, with the edge of their palm,
cut their strings like so many stems of flowers in a garden. Taoist monks and
Dominican engage in melee.
Any strategy seems to have disappeared. This is only a gigantic rat race among
the stars. Around, the dead keep coming the day and spend, hardly intrigued by
those souls who struggle with such determination on the periphery of Paradise.
The Allies are finding at a time that due to smaller numbers, they start having
underneath. They darken to the first comatic wall. Fearing they would resume
their tactical May 15, Shiku leads his troops in pursuit.
On the ledges of the second world increasingly steep, pious fighters clash along
their most horrible memories. Souls are shivering in that place that smells of
earth and death. Many cords are cut and ectoplasm of dead warriors spin to the
light. Three haschischins prey to a Liberal rabbi who tries to escape from their
jerky movements by no Yiddish dance. Through jumps kung fu, a Taoist monk
manages to settle in one motion six umbilical cords Dominicans. A Mohican is
alone against a group of Iroquois. In tight clusters, Moonies resist
Scientologists. Cults seem to especially do battle with each other. Are created
bizarre associations. An African marabout saves an Indonesian shaman, prisoner
of a Roman Catholic exorcist who wonders just what he does there. A band of Zen
monks is lost in the cornice. There is a fine charge of Indian gurus,
concoctions in the lotus position, against the whirling dervishes twirling

146

spinning top.
They have developed a revolving line of defense that can house the most
exhausted soldiers to their camp. A horde of Jesuits stuck a group of Shiite
ayatollahs to be in turn
263
attacked by haschischins. They owe their salvation to a Druze commando and a
small group of Alawites.
This is it, the last of the Mohicans died. Cheyenne the revenge. Against attack
Whirling Dervish supported by marabouts. Triangle Coalition of Zen monks to
prevent Indonesian shamans to rush to the rescue of liberal Jews.
The umbilical cords snap like rubber bands. It bites, one pulls. Crocs-en-leg
and crocs-en-cord. The light tunnel background illuminates these duels a white
glow. Frightened or enraged faces turn pale as under neon lights. From afar, I
saw groups linked by their cords tempting manceuvres complicated and often
doomed to failure. The slightest pity. The slightest mercy. Everyone is fighting
to kill or be killed.
The Allies seemed at first most likely to triumph but they are increasingly
dominated by the aggressiveness of their opponents. It is in their camp that the
cut cords are the most numerous.
The Rabbi Meyer sends the telepathic signal retired and runs to the second
comatic wall. General Shiku still leads, follow the Confederates. But crossing
Moch 2, they discover the red zone, full of delights and pleasures. After the
painful memories, devotees are forced to confront their sexual fantasies. What
titanic fight this battle where transparent monks trying to cut each other their
silver cords while repelling their most repressed desires!
We no longer know where to stop the horror and the orgy begins. Dominicans and
haschischins are most affected by these sexual visions that beset everywhere.
Perhaps they were more frustrated that Jews and Buddhists because their lines
are decimated while the Allies that their religion allows women to own and to
love without taboo, resist without too much difficulty.
Faced with an enterprising geisha who is desperate to dig in their umbilical
cord, General Shiku and Old Mountain fled, followed by what is left of their
ectoplasmic fighters.
Who attributed the victory in this battle of Paradise? Undoubtedly erotic
visions!
Maxime VILLAIN.
264
176-MYTHOLOGIE AZTEC
The Aztecs believed that human blood sacrifices provided the energy necessary
for the proper functioning of the cosmos, the race of the planets and the return
of the seasons. The victims torn chest and bowels exhibited by obsidian daggers
priests joined the gods on whose behalf they perished because once these gods
had sacrificed themselves to save the world. The death of men was therefore the
engine of the Universe. A war was a way to find fuel, namely captives for
sacrifice. Yet each folded happy that fate which was preparing the education of
every Aztec warrior.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
177 - ECUMENISM
The battle of Paradise sowed disarray among the valiant conquerors of the
afterlife. So many men of God died in vain ... The Dominicans, mortified,
wondered how they could be persuaded by haschischins fanatics to the point to be
associated with them. They regarded with contempt the few survivors of the sect
refugees in their mountain fortress and shuddered at the memory of that cruel

147

acts they had committed their side. Had they defied the papal wrath just to
really deserve the flames of Hell?
By delegation, they went to our thanatodrome of ButtesChaumont, multiplying the
excuses and muttering prayers.
It would not be perpetrating wars we succeed àpercer the mysteries of Ultimate
Continent. Devotees of all faiths had understood. The battle of Paradise marked
a historic turning point in their relationship. In the days of violent
opposition, succeeded that of understanding.
Facing a motley assembly standing in our penthouse, Raoul spoke
- Be convinced, all religions are good. Only are bad intentions of some
individuals who claim to unique custodians of the true faith. Zoroastrians,
Alawites, Christians,
265
Orthodox, Muslim, Jewish, Protestant, Shinto, Taoist, shamanistic, sorcerers,
healers, marabouts, and even cult members, all your confessions had access, at
some point, the general common knowledge. A fabulous knowledge. The great
mystery of death. Together, we will work to find him, intact, because lies the
mystery of life. Together we will discover the reason for our presence on earth
and what must be our behavior. Religions are quests that good manual of human
existence.
Monks, witches, rabbis and other ovationnèrent.
A Japanese Zen monk explained that once, in ancient times, there were not many
religions but only one, not a multitude of dialects but one language. There was
no different philosophies, disparate cultures, different wisdoms, but one and
true. The men had forgotten. Using one incomprehensible languages for others,
they had only describe the same old knowledge, which had lost its original
meaning to successive interpretations force. Thus were born the antagonisms. All
differences were only misunderstandings.
Accolades. Solemn handshakes. An ecumenical global agreement was signed at the
Buttes-Chaumont, establishing the first two commandments of the thanatonautique.
Article 1: The Paradise belongs to no nation, nor to any particular confession.
Article 2: Paradise is open to all and no one has the right to impede the free
access.
With these first legal-religious laws, that was the end of the anarchic period.
Travel to Paradise were now regulated. Nobody could afford to do anything under
the pretext that there was no control.
The agreements of the Buttes-Chaumont instaurèrent a new climate of interreligious understanding.
General initiated the Shiku Freddy Meyer rabbi ritual of the tea ceremony. He
was not offended that the Alsatian preferred to lemon.
Now that our thanatodroine had become a place of rendezvous for clerics around
the world, we installed for them a meeting room in the basement. Unlike
penthouse with sparkling light windows, the place was dark, full of relics,
prints and most diverse charms. Monks, imams or wizards
266
179-MANUAL HISTORY
While in Paris loved navigate to collect them or interact. That no conflict on
earth had managed to impose a single battle in Heaven had succeeded. All
religions undertook to work together to go faster, further. Until the depths of
the continent from the dead!
178-CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY
"Was it the body? I do not know.
Was it out of the body? I do not know. God knows.
He was taken to the third heaven ... "

148

Second Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians XII 2.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
SOME DATES TO REMEMBER
May 14, 2065: Battle of Paradise
18 June 2065: agreements Buttes-Chaumont
20 June 2065: first edicts thanatonautiques
History textbook, Basic Course 2 "year.
180 - 4 PIGS
A little tipsy to have once again too celebrated agreements Buttes-Chaumont,
Freddy told us, talkative, his personal history.
A student of a ballet school, he had once intended to become principal dancer if
not at least choreographer. He also appreciated when all air sports. The
arabesque tendrils, printing soar to the heavens, that was all he liked. But one
day he was addicted to gliding, his lap belt snapped. His two straps
267
shoulder were not enough to support it and, being deprived of a gliding
parachute, he fell. He distinguished down a vast plain and one tree. A single
tree. The slump lasted only a few seconds but Freddy had time to pray and to
swear that he réchappait this twist of fate, it turn its attention entirely to
religion. At random, why not the Jewish faith.
He lands on the tree, but in such a way that if he was spared, two branches put
out his eyes. He was saved but now blind. He did not honor his promise less. He
was not Jewish, yet he entered the yeshiva of Strasbourg where he had the chance
to have for a master Lamed Vav. One day, he swore, he too would become a Lamed
Vav.
And what was a Lamed Vav?
A man who reincarnated pure compassion for the men of this world, so having
accomplished everything he was free to leave the Gilgoulim, the cycle of life
returns.
The Lamed Vav were the secrets sages of the Jewish religion. Their goodness and
mercy contribute to improving the world. They were aware of their past lives,
knew the fight against ignorance, were devoid of personal ambitions.
Stefania also reported that such characters exist in Tibetan Buddhism. They
called it bodhisattvas and also deliberately returned to earthly existence
although they are freed from the cycle of reincarnation. There was no greater
act of mercy than to return to earth, out of pure love for the rest of human
chained to their karmic wheel.
- There must have in all religions of those sages who choose to return despite
painful experiences during their reincarnations, Freddy said. With us, the
hasidic tradition designates as the Lamed Vav, which is the number 36. Each
generation, a handful of these righteous sacrifice in secret to save all
mankind. They despise the pride and do not want notoriety. Celebrating their
psychic powers and knowledge of life and death. I sometimes think that Jesus
Christ was perhaps a Lamed Vav, too.
These evenings libations, encouraged by Amandine which ensured that the large
glass thanatonaute never remains empty, in no way affected the work of Freddy.
He continued to invent new celestial choreography. He imagined an ectoplasmic
Eiffel Tower, consisting of several rounds of souls leaning in
268
spiral each other. All silver cords were knotted, braided and arranged in the
center of the building so that everyone protects everyone.
As a sign of reconciliation, the rabbi gave the point to its exennemi, the Old

149

Man of the Mountain, which had arisen at home one evening, sheepish and
repentant now counting his disciples on the fingers of one hand. The former head
of the Assassins gratefully accepted. He knew he would be the first to cross the
fourth wall comatic!
Our mystical ballet took off on 21 July. Without difficulty, its members crossed
the first, second, third, and even fourth comatic wall. They saw what was behind
and we told. Upon their return, Raoul hastened to update our map of Ultimate
Continent.
The orange area ends with Moch 4. It leads to
5 TERRITORY
- Location: coma plus 42 minutes.
- Color: yellow.
- Sensations: passion, strength, even omnipotence. There all the previously
incomprehensible mysteries find their solution. Muslims see the true Garden of
Allah. Catholics find the original Paradise. Jews pierce the secrets of
Kabbalah. Yogis discover the meaning of their chakras and see shows their third
eye. The Taoists found his way pure Tao.
The yellow area is the land of absolute knowledge. All that seemed far foolish
receives its rationale. The meaning of life appears in its entirety, from the
infinitely large to the infinitely small.
The yellow area is completed by 5 Moch.
Some devotees were so overwhelmed by the revelations of the gold country they
had wanted to stay there, but the cords were so tightly woven they could not
dissociate themselves from their companions.
So all returned intact. We sabla champagne. We summoned the journalists to let
the world know that the widespread ecumenism allowed to perform a new step
forward in the discovery of Heaven and the knowledge tout court.
269
181-PHILOSOPHY SUFI
"I'm devastated, and plots of my body were thrown
In this firmament which is my original homeland
All are drunk, cheerful, romantic Wine
Unseen for fear of this prison which is myself
Shorten the time that tumultuous life
The annihilation of the wolf that shall break in pieces herd
In the mind of every man to reign pride; yet
The blows of death will lower the proud heads "
Rubai Yat, Jalal od Dm Rumi (XIII century).
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
5 182-PIGS
At its peak, the thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont was off nearly simultaneously
hundred twenty clergy of all religions. They then joined in the yellow area to
try crossing Moch 5.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
First floor. Departure of thirty monks who compose the top of the choreography.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
Second floor, to support them.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!
Third floor, another forestay.
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff!

150

The foundations of the building.
At the top, everyone expected the edge of the corolla of Paradise then
methodically wove their cords according to the figures created by Freddy. A
specialist marine nodes joined the holy men to help them cope strong links, and
afaire easy to undo. A skydiving instructor brought her advice so that everyone
can stay as long as grouped according to the technical flight in freefall.
Welded articulated a long procession, the first crossing Thanatonautes different
walls. The dead waiting in the
270
the orange zone saluted in passing because they had now taken the habit of
seeing them, what was for them a distraction. They even explained to newcomers
that there was nothing of this troop àcraindre that stretched, doubling everyone
without breaking their umbilical cords.
It was thus that the mystical caravan of one hundred twenty strong
Thanatonautes, managed, spent Moch 5, the sixth territory. In return, however,
they seemed more disillusioned qu'excités. They did not seem at all pleased to
have achieved together this great progress. On the contrary, their friendship
seemed to have taken a hit and also ecumenism.
They, however, gave way readily to our questioning.
After the yellow territory, they said, had the green territory. Green like
vegetation, tree foliage. There were beautiful flowers, wonderful plants ending
in multicolored stars. The green country was that of absolute beauty.
- So what is the test? asked Raoul.
- Exactly, it's too good. The green area is unbearable beauty, murmured a rabbi.
- It's beautiful, reluctantly approved a Buddhist monk.
I did not understand anything. How absolute beauty pouvaitelle be a trial?
Freddy explained
- It's so great that we lose all desire to be a man and never wish that become
fragrant flower to the chalice. We come to hate as it feels ugly compared to
many splendors. We would be confused with the magnificent vegetation of the
place and no longer exist in any other form. While it is particularly painful to
be confronted with the absolute knowledge but to be suddenly brought into
contact with the most ideal beauty is a race even harder to overcome.
Blind rabbi seemed indeed for once completely helpless. At the piano, he sadly
égrena few notes of a Chopin sonata.
- He's right, Stefania said darkly. Receive pure beauty after undergoing
knowledge, it takes away any desire to go back down. It was very difficult for
us to resign ourselves to it. Fortunately, again, our cords were tightly bound!
Raoul, Amandine, Rose and I did not succeed very well àcomprendre how the vision
of beauty was a test if
271
disconcerting but we completed them no less our map of Ultimate Continent, still
pushing the mention Terra incognita.
TERRITORY 6
- Location: coma more than 49 minutes.
- Colour: green.
- Sensations: of great beauty, and also negation of oneself, to be hideous. The
vision of beauty is a terrible ordeal.
Moch 6 ends.
Green countries left to devotees as a bitter taste. They were not prepared to
see the beauty. One after the other, they prétextèrent various obligations and
returned home. These splendours, they wanted to monopolize the sole benefit of
their parish. There was no question of going to war as in time of haschischins,
but the time was not to ecumenism, not every man for himself. The race was on
and may the best win!
Freddy and his three disciples of all survivors ectoplasmic wars were only to

151

stay loyal to us and stay with us. It must be said that constant force, Amandine
had reached àséduire blind old sage. The couple no longer hiding her romance. As
for the other Strasbourg, they were accustomed to Parisian life and were in no
hurry to return to their yeshiva, especially without their master.
Takeoffs resumed fragmented. Each denomination had its champions. Each hoped to
be the first àdécouvrir "God", soon crossed the dam of beauty. To many, it
seemed clear that only "God" could be there, at the bottom of the blue tunnel,
then black, then red, then orange, then yellow, then green. Beauty was his last
parade, the final frontier before Paradise.
After facing his memories, after fear, sick of pleasure, tired all patience,
seized by absolute knowledge, maddened by the ideal beauty, thus we could meet,
if not the Great Architect of the Universe?
In their respective thanatodromes, monks, witches, imams, priests and rabbis
held out their hands to him.
Who would join the first?
272
183 SCHOOL -Manuel
LEARN TO HONOR THE DEAD
Never speak ill of the dead. Especially the recent dead. As these may still be
active in our world. The dead who wait in long queue in Orange countries are not
idle. They discreetly observe the living. They often try to communicate with
their loved ones on earth. If it emits waves favorable memory of a dearly
departed soul can come to support us in our projects. However, if you have
nothing but resentment for him, his soul can not help us.
Up there in the orange countries, while the death is subject àl'épreuve
patience, he tries to contact all those he loved and those who loved him. It
occupies. This communication can only succeed if the living still feels love for
the dead. Thus we see, sometimes the death act sufficiently on the loved to the
point of doing wither. This is called "die of grief." This is not necessarily a
bad thing. The souls of two lovers can be together again and to wait in the long
line of orange country.
Manuel civics, basic course 2 year.
184 -TRAJECTOIRES COMPETING
The phase "the best man win the sprint" was moderately interesting. As
Thanatonautes now went more often alone or in small groups, will have more
support from the pyramid to pluck the wonders of pure knowledge or ideal beauty,
many tranchèrent themselves cord to stay up there.
Remained more lucid, perhaps because of their past wanderings, the Dominicans
were the first to reach Moch 6 by using an acrobatic figures that Freddy had
taught them. Yet they were unable to cross it.
It went well for our team.
Gradually, the public had lost interest in our expeditions, and we did not in
the headlines.
For all people, it now seemed clear that the
273
274
thanatonautique was only an endless race. 1 Moch, Moch 2, 3 Moch, Moch 4, 5
Moch, Moch 6 ... Why not then Moch Moch 124 or 2018 with all the colors of the
rainbow, rainbow, all possible events and why not a triathlon Olympic?
L'Osservatore Romano, the Vatican newspaper, mocked these so-called pioneers who
dared to doubt the infinity of heaven. "The thanatonautique is the latest opium
of the people", the British newspaper Times headline.

152

The thanatonautique became the target of jokes cartoonists, showmen and TV
puppets. She lost all sanctity to become a goodwill among others.
In the family shop, sales declined. My mother and brother had beautiful launch
new posters, tee-shirts to the most beautiful colors of the afterlife, caps with
embossed pattern, winged sandals, neon posters visible only in the dark, food
rations "Special thanatonaute", customers were scarce. Well, after 6 Moch, there
would Moch 7, and what interest?
Raoul railed
- It's not our fault, even if this adventure begins to exhibit repetitive
aspects. It is not we who have invented geography Ultimate Continent. We strive
only to discover it and it's always exciting.
It does not décolérait. If people made fun of our company, the credits would
decrease. The presidential slush funds were not inexhaustible.
Lucinder yet we remained attached. If the public is captivated for show, well,
we provide him! He suggested a series of televised meditation course, every
Sunday morning, replacing traditional aerobics lessons. Freddy and Stefania
there would marvel. The President had even found a title for their show "The
XXII` century will be spiritual or will not be." He was very happy.
- He takes us for monkeys learned or what? Stefania got mad.
- We must understand, 'I said. After all, it's normal that people get tired of
these endless comatiques walls. Myself, sometimes I have the impression that we
will never finish!
- Error! Freddy exclaimed. Moch 6 will be the final frontier.
We sommâmes on to explain. Serene, unfathomable away from his dark glasses, the
rabbi spoke.
- In the Bible, in the Kabala as in many sacred texts, it is written that there
are seven heavens. Seven heavens, seven territories so after death. You also
know all the expression "go in seventh heaven." Seven, not one more, not one
less. I discussed this with other religious confessions and we all found that
this figure 7 always came to describe the countries beyond. Moch 6 will probably
be the last wall.
- And what does he have behind? I asked.
Freddy was a helpless gesture.
- The center of the black hole, God, a lottery ticket, a firefly, a dead
maybe ... For us to be
go!
Without enthusiasm, I bent over my boosters.
185-EASTERN PHILOSOPHY
"Then answered Almitra
- You want to know the secret of death. But how do you find if looking at the
heart of life?
The owl whose eyes are made for the night blind date can not unveil the mystery
of light.
If you really want to contemplate the spirit of death, open your body fully to
life. For life and death are one, even as the river and the ocean are one.
In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond.
Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity. "
Khalil Gibran, The Prophet.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
186 - MIME STARS reincarnate
Rose had his eyes glued to the screen of ectoplasm detector. Eighteen Taoist
monks had taken off for several minutes already. She was convinced they had
managed to pierce the sixth wall. My wife was probably right because at the end

153

of an hour spent
275
torment us, we found that their carnal envelopes no longer gave any sign of
biological life. Peace to their souls.
Freddy estimated that it would restore a caravan of one hundred twenty
interfaith mystical to succeed, but his old friends declined the invitation of
the rabbi, as they persisted in wanting to act separately for the glory splash
out on their only religion.
My wife suggested to drop some mystics to reorient our research concerns the
side of astronomy and astrophysics. I agreed, but what could we learn more than
that the Ultimate Continent was indeed a black hole in the center of the Milky
Way?
Rose had his idea
- You want to know what there is in the hole. Now it happens that
astrophysicists have long known.
- Oh yes! Raoul laughed skeptically.
- And what does he? I asked.
- A white fountain.
A white fountain! Freddy left the chair lift-off on which it rested to pace the
room. Despite his agitation, the blind was doing to not run counter to any of
the devices, yet many who crowded our laboratory.
- The white fountain, it is the opposite of the black hole, Rose clarified. It
absorbs light, that one rejects it. The black hole attracts matter, the white
fountain pours. Some believe that the big bang would be a white fountain,
producing material and light. The white fountains would perhaps even the origin
of the new universe.
Rose then gave an exciting lecture astrophysics. Each black hole would mark the
death of a galaxy swallowing the stars since it compresses them and turns them
into pure energy. The center of our galaxy consists of a vortex that sucks and
spins the material around it. It is even expected that by On several million
years, the sun let it swallow. The most fascinating is that, as well explains
the physical science, nothing is created, nothing dies, everything changes. The
death of a star generates energy qu'expulse white fountain, which has a bit as a
blunderbuss to flare gun.
Thus, even the stars would be reincarnated! Black holes and white fountains are
merely gateways to world
276
parallel. Rose claimed that, as each galaxy has its own area or of its
particular god, each would also have its own Big Bang and cosmic anus. Each
galaxy could even have its own space-time. We, therefore we would find in the
world of the Milky Way, with the god, time, death, consciousness specific to it.
Rose we were all very impressed with this idea of black hole corresponding to
each time a white fountain and thus a rebirth in another space-time. Freddy sat
down to better digest the lesson.
- But what would become of ectoplasm, past the white fountain? he asked.
My wife knew his limits.
- So here over science and return to religion. Maybe souls are spat out, too,
and then reincarnated in another world?
Amandine proposed that we climbed in the penthouse drinking cocktails and some
rest our brains. The session had exhausted us, we would gladly consented. There,
among the green plants, relaxed, the old blind man and the blonde lovely we
announced their intention to marry. Amandine ensured that Freddy was the man of
her life and she was very willing to convert to Judaism if he demanded it. But
her fiance did not ask for much. He was liberal enough to allow a mixed
marriage.
So they united and with the disciples of the yeshiva in Strasbourg, we made the
party. Never had I seen so radiant Amandine that while her new husband was
beating traditional tunes on the piano, we were dancing in a circle. Freddy was

154

twenty years older than she, under both eyes, but he knew allay his fears and
make her laugh. What he has more important in a relationship?
187-MYTHOLOGIE Taoist
"Very far east of the South China Sea, where the sky is off from the Earth, is a
huge abyss, bottomless, called" universal Confluence ". There, all the waters of
Earth and those of the Milky Way (collector river of celestial water) flow
without its content never increases or decreases. Between that chasm and China,
there are five large islands, Tai-yu-Yuan kio, Fang-hou, Ying
277
chou, P'eng-lai. At their core, these islands each measure thirty thousand
stadia. Their flat top nine thousand furlongs in circumference. The buildings
that cover all the islands of gold and jade. Pets are familiar there. The
vegetation is wonderful. The fragrant flowers. The eaten fruit preserve of old
age and death. The inhabitants of these islands are all geniuses, sages. Every
day they are visited by flying through the air. "
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
188 - NOTHING BUT TROUBLE
We wanted to go after our adventure and cross the difficult sixth wall. It was
not yet quite dramatic circumstances to force us to write the final chapter in
our quest.
In July of that year, it produced a strange phenomenon. Fundamentalists returned
to the charge. Again there was graffiti on our doors, "Let God alone", signed
"The guardians of the mystery." Later, death threats reached us by telephone and
mail. Again the Holy See entered the lists, recalling the ban to take off on
pain of excommunication and enacted the famous bull "And mysteriumque mysterium"
heretic calling anyone trying to see what was behind the sixth wall before being
called by the Most High.
"People die stupidly too curious", hammered a voice on the answering machine of
the laboratory. Raoul was beaten up in the street. As usual, he had forgotten to
defend himself. Priests and imams came together to protest, surrounded by their
flock outside our building. Tons of garbage were dumped nearby. The windows of
the family store were shattered, happily after closure. Onlookers, amazed by so
much rage, gazed curiously at the shop ransacked.
To be again the center of controversy, we redevînmes fashionable. With young
people, we found our hero status, actors greatest adventure of the millennium.
They lined up to get an autograph of the famous Freddy Meyer and Stefania
Thanatonautes Chichelli and worshiped the memory of the precursor
278
Felix Kerboz. Our shop quickly redecorated by dozens of volunteers volunteers,
not always full. After threats of letters poured in messages of support. They
begged us not to yield to the medieval obscurantism and fears.
In stormy meetings, fights broke out between supporters and detractors of
thanatonautique.
They became more and more violent. One day Rose, alone in the shop, replaced my
mother, a van parked in front of the building. In down three men wearing
balaclavas and dressed in leather jackets, waving pickaxe handles. They began
immediately to the store bag and my wife understood that his salvation was in
flight. But they continued.
She took her to his heels and looked toward the street. Panting, out of breath,
she took refuge in a doorway. The others quickly approached. So she resumed his
course under the eyes of passersby indifferent as ever. She veered to the left,
right, left again to find themselves cornered in a dead end. Frail woman against

155

three armed fellows, Rose had no chance. They left him, turned blue with
bruises, blood in front.
Two hours passed before a neighboring tenant agrees to consider this woman lying
on the floor, others had exceeded without flinching, saying later that they had
thought it was only a washed- again, slumped to sleep it off.
At St. Louis hospital where the emergency took, desolate doctors declared that
she had arrived too late for them to save. She had lost too much blood. Thank
goodness that a compassionate man has allowed him to die in a hospital bed, so
many people were dying all night on sidewalks without anyone even think to alert
the police!
Rose was lying inert, in the recovery room. Only the devices kept alive.
What to do to save her? I ran back to my friends. Raoul advised me to speak to
Freddy. In these terrible circumstances, only the old rabbi would know how to
act.
The wise Strasbourg took me in his arms and stared at me with his blind eyes
- Are you ready for anything, really desperate to save her?
- Yes.
I was adamant. Rose was my wife and I loved him.
279
- Enough to risk your own life to preserve his?
- Yes. A thousand times yes.
The rabbi stared at me with his soul, I felt. With his soul he sought to
perceive if I told the truth. I waited, heart pounding, he consents to believe
me.
- In that case, here's the solution. Set a specific time with doctors to
disconnect the devices. Then we will try to take off at the same time. By
clinging to its umbilical cord and striving to retain it before it breaks, we
will perhaps bring it back to life. You will come with us and it is you who will
save.
189 - POLICE SHEET
Note to the services concerned
come?
Violence on the side of thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont. Should interResponse services concerned
Not yet.
190 - THE GREAT FLIGHT
It was possible. I was convinced that it was possible. The Grim Reaper does not
pluck my Rose. I ran to the hospital.
The head of the ICU do not really understand why I was so anxious to secure the
death of my wife at 17 o'clock but he assured me that I had made the right
choice. Better to have recourse to euthanasia than keep alive a human àl'é; at
vegetable. He readily acceded to my request. Sore families had already presented
him strangest. He promised to begin consulting his watch from 16 h 55 and 0
seconds.
I did not sleep all night. It is not by reiterating that tomorrow we die
voluntarily obtained sweet dreams. While awake, I cauchemardais rather, trying
to imagine what bubble memories assailleraient me to cut me to pieces and hidden
defects which would disclose to me the red country.
I forced myself to eat a breakfast and a hearty meal before taking the afternoon

156

to review Freddy figure we
280
would use to save Rose. No pyramid this time but a flat structure, a kind of net
in which we hoped to gather my wife.
I would be in the center, holding two rabbis Strasbourg by the hands, two Taoist
monks of Shao-lin (income there to obscure political reasons) by the legs. I
would never know what Freddy had promised them that they agree to join us, but
in the great hall of flight, I discovered eighteen other rabbis, thirteen
Tibetan Buddhist monks and, of course, Stefania.
I for one did not have much confidence in my meditation abilities, I carefully
vérifiai my chemical boosters.
We all donned our white holding thanatonaute, each setting the screen where
loomed our heartbeat and our electro-brain activity.
My companions were closing the eyes already, ready to shake off pear when the
bell would ring. 16 h 56, the clock indicated. 16 h 57 ...
I was dying for a second time but that would be my first voluntary departure.
After all this time to send people to the mainland of the dead, had come the day
to go myself! I was sure to fail and die for good but I had no choice. The
desire to save Rose came before all else.
16 h 57 and 10 seconds. My hands are sweaty on the press.
16 h 57 and 43 seconds. From either side of me, Freddy and Stefania are
particularly serene. We have repeatedly reiterated pool our respective positions
to form the perfect choreography that will allow me to go very far if necessary.
With the figures it has developed, Freddy think we can reach the fifth comatic
wall. For my part, I intend to catch Rose before Moch 5. I have no experience of
interstellar flights.
16 h 58 and 3 seconds. The room is plunged off a clean dark soothe us. Gregorian
chants rise slowly. I now understand how calming that music can have for
Thanatonautes departing.
16 h 58 and 34 seconds. Suddenly, the door opens. A figure appeared in
silhouette. I recognize. Raoul. He has to film my baptism of death? No, he gives
me a wink and then, without hesitation, put on a white dress and goes to a
sphere of flight. He stands like us in the lotus position and takes in his hand
a lever boosters.
281
16 h 58 and 56 seconds. The door opens again. A slender figure with blonde hair
a moment flooded with light from the outside in turn goes to a throne. As Raoul,
like me, Amandine has never taken off. She'll do it now for Rose. For me.
She grabs one of our uniforms. This is the first time outside of his marriage, I
see white. It installs different devices and crashes in the arm the needle that
will inject his deadly liquid.
16 h 59 and 20 seconds. I smile. I really have the best of friends. If it is in
hard times that we recognize, well, then, I recognize them. Their presence gives
me strength. How lucky I was to have known them! I really have the best of
friends.
17 hours 00 minutes 2 seconds. First arpeggios of a Bach toccata. It's like a
bell supposed to open the door of heaven. Sesame toccata made that up there, we
did not ran up against an insurmountable wall.
17 hours 00 minutes 25 seconds.
- Loans? Freddy asks around.
Twenty-eight votes respond simultaneously
- Ready!
How many times have I heard that word without being concerned!
The countdown Rabbi
- Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... - Do not ask "But what I Takeoff
two ... one.!
My clammy hands I press the pear boosters. I feel the icy liquid flow into my
veins, and ... I'm dying!

157

i am ... "Bite the bullet Tighten buttocks.. 191-EASTERN PHILOSOPHY
"Your fear of death is but the thrill of the shepherd when he stands before the
king whose hand will land on him to honor him. The shepherd did he enthuses not
under its earthquake that he shall bear the insignia of the King? Yet is it not
aware of the tremor?
For what that die otherwise stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?
And what if not stop breathing the breath of his release
282
tides worried for him to raise and seek God unfettered?
Only when you drink from the river of silence you really sing. And when you have
reached the top of the mountain, you finally begin to rise. And when the earth
will claim your limbs then you really will dance. "
Khalil Gibran, The Prophet.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
192 - UP THERE
Stefania is right as long as we did not die, we can not know what it is.
It is impossible to describe with words. But I will try to share these emotions
as I have experienced. Be aware, however (if you have not before death) that my
words will touch on reality.
Some sensations are unspeakable and sensations, I have all felt that day, that
day when I went to try to save my wife before she was caught by this Ultimate
Continent I had so many studied.
Once pressed the off button, my first impression is that nothing happens. But
then, absolutely nothing. I even want to get up to announce the round that
missed experience and that we must try something else. I hesitate for fear of
ridicule me and I decided to wait five minutes in case an event finally happen.
I am a novice, but others know. If they do not move, is that everything is
normal.
I yawn. No doubt the effect of anesthetic that makes me feel a little drunk. My
head is spinning. I focus my àgarder back straight as advised eternally
Stefania.
My last conscious thought is Rose and I repeat that I have to save her. Now I
know I'll die. A memory comes back to me. I was still very small and it was the
first time I rode a rollercoaster. Initially the truck slowly climbed the slope.
Once it is at the top, we said we would do
283
better to be elsewhere and go down before it is too late. Already, however, the
carriage rushes forward, girls screaming in terror or joy, and eyes are closed
praying that this torture stop quickly. It does not stop. We are carried away
right then immediately left back, loops upside down, it is àdeux fingers fall
into the void and say that the worst is we paid for so many suffer frights!
Well, then, I fall asleep slowly. I feel lighter. Very light. I feel that if I
wanted to, I could float like a feather, and I see that indeed ... I float like
a feather! At least a part of my body it seeks, as if the other instinctively
refused to leave life. I'm loving Rose with all my heart, Death frightens me
terribly. I did not want to leave my apartment like that, my neighborhood, my
pub, my friends. Even my friends, especially friends main nion, are all there,
accompanying me in this terrible ordeal.
All I feel, Raoul feels. All my fears, he must share them. Suddenly, something
strange happens. A lump rises from the top of my head, holding my àl'extrême

158

scalp. How to prevent this monstrosity? My heart beats so slowly that I can not
move. I watch helplessly àl'accouchement the top of my head of another self,
unknown so far. My consciousness scale. She will stay down with me sitting
cross-legged or she will leave with me he climbed from my head?
I'm pushing, pulling, pulling outward.
Dizziness. Blur. Disappearance of the notion of time. My every movement takes a
century. In reality it is surely only a fraction of a second. Griserie. A horn
out of my skull. Specifically, a horn terminating in a head. My head. My "other"
head. I'm like split in two. Double and yet be totally erased. I die when the
horn continues to grow, beautiful, white, transparent.
Now she has two arms hanging over my fontanelles to better release of my skull.
At its summit, a mouth opens in a silent groan. My second head weeps by
delivering my body. As a birth. My physical body gives birth to my soul. Glare.
Tingling. Pain and pleasure. In turn, I see the world with my eyes and always
with the eyes of my soul. My soul specifically observed what happens in my back.
284
I note, frightened, that we are two in my carnal envelope. The "other" continues
to come out. It is no longer a horn but a stretched balloon vague. I see him and
he sees me.
Incredible, the effects of disembodiment!
My "I" hesitates between cringe in my flesh or go to this ball which now grow
legs. "Go," my body close to my soul. "Go," I urged me. I think back to Rose,
atous my friends around me risking their lives to help me, and in an effort of
will, I anchor my consciousness in being transparent gushing from the top of my
skull. I another. Other in my new body transparent.
Flash.
Ectoplasm, I became an ectoplasm. The outcome of my skull balloon faithfully
reproduced the shape of my head is extended by transparent my neck, my shoulders
transparent, clear my chest, my arms transparent, clear my pelvis, my legs and
feet clear. I'm like unmolded! As a long wrinkled and twisted intestine, a
transparent rope hangs from my navel, connecting me to a guy further down,
seated on a chair in the lotus position. And the funny thing is that this guy
down, well, that's me!
I became a soul and I see others emerge around, spurting of skulls and
foreheads. We are forty to float just under the ceiling thanatodrome and now I
really want to go higher.
Freddy, very comfortable in his role as veteran space, we did sign up. Follow
the blind! Okay, but ... lé ceiling has already gone through the ceiling,
followed by religious, Raoul and Amandine on their heels. I am now only
contemplate forty body stiffened like so many soft statues. How imitate others?
I'm not a wall-pass but I'm afraid to dwell so far from all. Arming myself with
all my courage, I close my eyes transparent and hop, passing through ceilings,
floors, floor by floor gravis, and already it is the roof terrace.
The others are waiting for me. Together we rise. Paris from above, it's great! I
contemplate the Our Lady cathedral when a supersonic aircraft bearing down on
us. Too late to avoid it but so what? It pierced without damage our ethereal
body. Incidentally, I look at the levers of the cockpit and the entrails of a
driver. Fantastic, I scanned a jet!
285
Freddy pulls me to my amazement. We must hurry if we do not want to miss Rose.
In fact, we are too late Ala vertical of the Saint Louis Hospital. Rose has
already passed and is now between us and the Ultimate Continent.
It's my fault that we missed. With my hesitation to the ceiling, I slowed the
team. Always in command, Freddy commands us to forge ahead with all the power of
our thought. We drive well to three times the speed of light, doubling sunshine
on sunbeam. Bzzz ... We pass Jupiter, Saturn, Pluto, Uranus, Neptune and
humm ... is the vacuum of space!
Fortunately, ectoplasm nor are sensitive to lack of oxygen or laws of gravity,

159

do not feel hungry or thirsty. We know that reigns here freezing temperatures
but it does not make us neither hot nor cold. The ectoplasm is the future of
transport! The soul knows no obstacle, breaking all speed records and risk (with
rare exceptions like our old religious wars) practically no accident.
I have fun crossing the little spaceship hacked by Russian cosmonauts off to
discover the black hole center of our galaxy, after Rose was revealed. The crew
obviously ignores my connivance signs.
Before me, the rabbis are urging me to hurry. Okay, but how do you accelerate?
Easy, just thinking about it. Everything is so new, so strange, so strange from
my imagination narrow islets.
Stefania smiled. It may be transparent but, like others, I recognize it
perfectly. We drive side by side between stars and planets. On my right, there
was also Raoul, Amandine and Freddy. All our ectoplasm Thanatonautes squadron
flying, plane, fuse to the Ultimate Continent.
Soon, I saw Rose. It is there, far ahead and yes, she headed straight ... death.
Death, represented by a large multicolored halo: the entrance of the black hole.
In fact, for a black hole, the place is rather bright! All around the corolla,
planets and stars collide sucked into a magical fire fireworks shaped swirling
galaxy. The stars not yet gobées under the effect of speed that lead them to the
bottom of the black hole, turn pink, then white, then red, purple, burst into
rosettes, flowers in bright dew drops. The light, yet so fast, here is
deflected. The rays bend, become rounded, dance before being diverted by the
absolute magnet.
286
Magic show, but to overcome quickly.
Around us, the dead day rush to the attractive light, hurriedly snatching their
umbilical cords. One of Rose slams with others. For a moment I think that
everything is ruined. No, Freddy thinks it is possible to recover it. It beckons
us however much care to preserve our own cords.
Our squadron gathers to better braiding as indicated Freddy. That reassures me a
little. It is like engaging in a difficult climbing, but pledged a good reminder
rope.
Our group gliding concert in the gaping black hole. Its diameter is huge:
millions of kilometers, probably!
The closer we get, the more the halo of light grows, revealing other circles
inside. Felix was right: this is not a crown but a funnel. The walls are
distinguished sinking to a hallway that never ends to stretch.
I stretch my arms toward transparent Rose in the distance.
We reach a beach. Around and in front there was like a sea of neon blue, barely
illuminated by a setting sun glistening. A more mph, I is approaching waves. By
the way, they pass me a soft power, comforting and invigorating. I am fine here.
I'm better than anywhere else before.
I then a scary thought: Rose is right to darken, we are wrong to want to return
to the world.
I shake myself. My wife comes out of my field of vision. Our pace we rush
through our thinking. If even one of us thinks and everyone knows what he has in
mind.
I still accelerating. This huge country, yet I would have gladly walked at
leisure for days and months. Never had I known such crazy feelings. Race car,
motorcycle, diving highest, nothing beats the intoxication of victory and speed.
I sink, I sink, I slip, I pour myself into the central source of illumination. A
splendid strength invades my transparent body. I sparkles like the sea that
surrounds us. From dazzling lights flash on my translucent nails.
The dead of the day are numerous at the entrance of the vortex. I hardly Rose
discovers in the crowd.
We enter with him into the corolla of star flower. It is such that I drew for so
many times under the dictation of

160

287
previous Thanatonautes. Everything turns, everything we aspire. Freddy rushes
hoping to enter Rose before it crosses the first comatic wall but it goes too
fast. If his disciples had not retained the cord rabbi, he would have broken.
Rose disappears.
Understanding that I have the jitters, Raoul seized me by the hand with our band
I spend 1 Moch.
Splashy!
A gigantic monster emerges soon. The woman in white satin dress the skeleton
mask floating in black space like a blimp in a horror film. Her shrill laughter
deafen me. I'm like a fly in front of this being ten, then a hundred, then a
thousand times bigger than me.
The white satin woman has a superb body. She lifts her dress, revealing long
legs of a perfect curve that stretches luxuriously. His tiny chest expands and
her cleavage hints at the birth of her breasts.
She is always laughing, inviting me to lose myself in the folds of her white
satin dress. The skeleton mask staring at me, watching my reactions while she
shrinks as if to get within reach.
Now it is more reasonable size, I want to try to tear it. My hands rise towards
the edges of the mask. Sharp, they squirt of my fingers a transparent, sticky
blood. Despite my disgust, I do not release my grip. I pulled with all my might.
Behind this mask there is something essential that I must find out at any cost.
Who is behind the mask skeleton of a woman who attracts me so much?
desire, by banishing desire, by renouncing it, by delivering it, not letting him
up.
Here, monks, holy Truth on the path that leads to the suppression of pain is
what Awaits with eight branches which are called pure faith, pure will, pure
language, pure action, pure livelihood pure application, pure memory, pure
meditation. "
Buddha Benares speech.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
194 - DEATH IN FRONT

stops spurting

I step back and become very small.
My ectoplasm freezes astonishment. The blood
my fingers.
Behind the skeleton mask, there is only a

skeleton. A
rejects

is the

Another skull. The woman in the white satin is hard to
discover another, then another and yet another. She
well over one hundred, as many identical representations
of death.
The death is just that. Death is death is death
Death is death and nothing else.
The being or thing becomes daunting. Her legs

transfor

ment tentacles that trap me. I struggle my best.
As I now understand the terror of Bresson!
- You'll regret being up here! exclaims the

skeleton, with

new laughter.
Amandine? Rose? My mother? Raoul? My death, that death which I And as it
becomes masked woman, I see pink fingers
I am studying to compensate indescribable missing?

161

An arm rises slowly. Very slowly, he removes the mask
The mask is almost removed. And I see
Amazing what there is behind that mask! If unexpected! And
hitting so simple
193-BUDDHIST PHILOSOPHY
Here, monks, holy truth about the suppression of pain
The extinction of this thirst is achieved by the complete annihilation of
288
rotting, flesh rot, putrefy. Two indexes only succeed through my ectoplasmic
face in seeking to poke my eyes.
Suddenly, I have before me a spider covered with white satin.
Telepathically, I try magic formulas to get rid of it. "Vade retro Satanas." In
vain. Me comes to mind the litany of fear of Dune. I say:.... "I do
connaîtrai.pas fear Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration the
I face my fear I will permit it to pass over me and through me when is over, I
will turn my inner eye in his way. And where it is over, there will be nothing
left. Nothing but me. N
289
I close my eyes and mentally repeat each sentence.
The laughter stops and the woman in white explodes in light bubbles.
Only one remains. This is the central light that shows us the way. Through this
clarity, I see the silhouettes in shadow of my friends. I join them. All fought
their monster. Their staff monster.
Freddy confirms it: we spent Moch 1. And Rose is still far ahead.
After the first comatic wall, the color changes. The blue turns purple and
brown. There are black highlights. Is it the shades of Hell?
We slow our run while, as the hailstones of an unusual storm, memories tips
based on us.
The corridor twists, turns into spring. I always travel to the light of death by
trying not to pay attention to their bites. What impression of strength! There
are not twenty minutes my soul out of my body and I'm already to hundreds of
light years.
No sense of loss, even less depletion. I only just left a rusty armor. I thought
this armor was protecting me. In fact, she compressait my soul, the breath, the
mind.
With this armor, I cashed blows, convinced that my wounds are inscribe than
simple scratches. Vast mistake. Everything touched my sensitive roots. All shots
of my life, I saw her one by one. Paradoxically, those I have received have left
fewer traces than I have given. My soul is like a tree that would be engraved
pocketknife words and memories.
Everything happens very quickly. I remember my birth, my mother feeding me with
strength, my father gave me vertigo and only às'amuser forcing me to play at the
airplane, my first outbreaks of pimples and shame they caused me, my accident
car, the slaughter of prisoners of Fleury-Merogis, Felix driven to suicide,
Congress Hall of the crowd booing me, letters of insults, threatening letters,
and my perpetual guilt. "Murderer! Murderer!", Launched me in the face of men
I've forgotten the name. "Assassin, assassin, assassin, assassin," an inner
voice tells me. "You killed hundred twenty-three innocent people." "I'm sorry,
Michael, but you're not my type of man." The bad memories mingle with old
nightmares.
290
All in all, I still prefer the encounter with the woman in white satin dress.
Too bad, I face my past with maximum honesty.
Rose is also hampered by the small bubbles souvenir. J e wish perhaps the

162

opportunity to catch up. I approach with great difficulty, struggling against
the tempest of my own life. I progress yet. That's it, I almost joined.
Telepathically (as well speak ectoplasm), I throw: "We came looking for you to
help you down." She lends me no attention. She found her first love. It is an
American astronomer. When he dropped it, she sought to resume pursuing the same
school as him. Rose had never told me. Now I understand better many of his
feelings.
She discusses with the memories of her lover. He said he was bored with it. He
told her that in a couple, the most important is to never get bored. She was
gentle and kind, certainly, but it brought him nothing special. That's why he
left her.
In tears, Rose fled. I have not had time to swear that no, we do not get bored
with it that already she crossed the second comatic wall.
I can not run after her. Freddy holding me by my silver cord. He reminds me that
the purpose of this expedition is to all go live on earth, and if I run too
much, I will break my cord and could neither help nor Rose to turn around.
Freddy, Stefania, Raoul and Amandine holding my hands, we spend together Moch 2.
Stefania certainly often praised us the pleasures of red country but I never
imagined so many fantasies and perversions materialized! Another Amandine The
Amandine I have so long desired, comes in corset and fishnet stockings and tries
to hug me. Looking like the real Amandine escape but it surrenders in the arms
of a handsome black Adonis prominent muscles.
Young boys caress Raoul, I never thought he could repress homosexual tendencies.
Accustomed places, Stefania took the opportunity to mingle for a moment a gang
of girls who know the most intimate springs of a woman's body. In the back seat
of a Rolls Royce, Rose engages in a fairytale prince.
I want to pull away but Amandine of my fantasies, whose long blond hair
contrasting with his black leather clothes,
291
grabs my face and plunges between her warm breasts while laughing like a devil.
For its part, Freddy is surrounded by a harem of Arab women, all wearing a
sparkling diamond navel. One by one, as Plucking a daisy, it deprives them their
silk sails.
Where did we go we shove? Amandine My dream caresses my neck to the end of her
lashes she was beaten very quickly. A nervous butterfly tickles her long silken
wings. So I had this fantasy that? It's delicious. Amanda smiled at me with a
look of the rogues. Then, with her mouth, she me ...
195 -Sheet POLICE
Note to the services concerned
A group of experienced Thanatonautes took off this morning. It is still mired in
the second territory. Should we intervene?
Response services concerned
Not yet.
196-BUDDHIST PHILOSOPHY
"If, despite our virtues we have an unhappy life, this is due to our past bad
karma.
If in spite of our wickedness we have a happy life, it is also due to our past
karma.
Our actions now will turn all their consequences at the first possible
opportunity. "
Narada Thera, Doctrine de la Renaissance.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.

163

197 -IN THE CLOUDS
... She bites my ears. It stays between us but I like it. I love even that.
Especially on the top corner. And then the lobe. And neck too. No neck. However,
I like on tip
292
shoulders. She knows. She knows everything about my sensuality! It benefits.
Abused. Then my dream Amandine, becoming even bolder, me ...
But tearing the houris, Freddy beats the recall and intimate us to overcome our
sexual urges. We shake against each other by mutually taking us our umbilical
cords. Beside me, a Taoist monk does not lead off. He knows that we are moving
towards the splendid but dangerous territories.
Many times we try to catch Rose. In vain. She has already crossed Moch 3 and
joined the crowd of the dead waiting.
Like her, we enter the orange country. The queue of the dead extends to the
horizon. Some are surprised to see us always of our affluent cords. What is
strange is that these tourists from the world of life to visit the continent of
the dead? Most, however, are not interested in us.
Looking Rose in the crowd.
There where whole battalions of soldiers killed in exotic wars, victims of
devastating epidemics, rough from the mess started. Dead, dead, dead still, of
all races and from all countries. Lepers, sentenced to death electrocuted,
roasters of traffic lights, policies tortured, imprudent fakirs, chronic
constipation, explorers poisoned by curare arrows, underwater swimmers who
teased too shark, the shot sailors, frantic ethyl, paranoid who fled their
imaginary enemies through the window on the ninth floor, the bungee jumpers
which was too elastic, too curious volcanologists, myopic that have not seen the
truck approaching, presbyopic who have not seen the ravine of astigmatism that
have not recognized the tarantula, high school students who did not understand a
viper, it does not look like a snake.
We overturning everyone.
"Rose, Rose," I hereby issue telepathic language.
Several women named Rose returned. Full of thorns Rose ears or resentments. Like
those of others, their ectoplasm tells their story. A victim of a jealous
husband, a peasant surprise in a haystack by a vengeful father, a deceased old
woman without having benefited from his wealth already squander his
grandchildren ...
I grew among others dead. Dead, dead, dead yet. Drug addicts in overdose.
battered women too, of
293
sliders on banana skins, unlucky colds, smokers époumonés, marathon winners,
Formula 1 drivers who missed the turn, airline pilots who missed the runway,
tourists who imagined that Harlem was much more picturesque evening for lovers
of family feuds, unpublished virus discoverers of third world water drinkers,
stray bullets pickers, mines collectors of World War II, jackets racketeers who
are fallen police officers on leave, the car bomb thieves.
There are also riders who were convinced that there was enough room to double in
the top of the hill truck, truck drivers who gave a great swerved to avoid a
motorcycle just up the coast, self -stoppeurs who saw suddenly, just up hill, a
motorcycle and a truck brush against their rush into it.
Liver Transplant discuss with heart transplant recipients. Children criticize
their parents who have not yet found them while playing hide and seek, they had
simply hidden in the refrigerator.
No tension between the deceased. Here reign of universal peace. Bosnians amenity
alongside with the Serbs. Corsican clans reconcile. A castaway sea speaks with a
wrecked space.
Freddy reminds us that we have no time to lose in distractions. We gather around

164

him, ready for the figure that we have repeated in the laboratory. We support
each other in seeking to preserve our umbilical cords, we are building a
pyramid. At the top, Freddy, Raoul and Amandine keep me on their shoulders.
I communicate to Rose that we are here to bring her back home ALA. "What for?"
She replies. She believes that her time has come. You should know end the
existence and is satisfied with his end: she died after passing his life. She
left when she was happy and that its projects produced. What more?
I retorted him that she died before she had a child and that I want a child with
her. She responds by recalling a phrase from Stefania: "The problem is that
people appear necessary on this earth and are not able to give up everything,
what pride!"
She believes that the world is populated enough that she did not regret leaving
the childless. Finally, not more
294
hear my exhortations, she takes her legs around his neck and elbowing to exceed
the mass of waiting dead.
My wife and we go after him, and the fourth wall and comatic win the Knowledge
country.
Without asking, I learn why E = mc 2 and I think it's great. I understand .why
humanity constantly torn in wars. I even see where are hidden the keys to my car
I was looking for so long.
I get a lot of answers to questions I'm never asked. How, for example, you can
keep the bubbles in a bottle of champagne just by introducing a silver spoon in
the neck. (That's always been a great mystery to me!)
I understand that we must accept without complaint the world as it is and
without judging anyone. I understand that the only ambition of a human can my
intelligence
than seek to be constantly improving. expands to blow my brains out. I am aware
of everything, life, beings, things. - It is nice to understand everything! As
Adam had to be happy crunching the apple of knowledge and by receiving the
Newton on the head!
Ah yes, the encounter with knowledge is perhaps the most difficult test of all.
I advance in knowledge. The great knowledge and little knowledge. Absolute
knowledge and relative knowledge. Suddenly I stop, struck by a revelation: I
never loved. Admittedly, I felt compassion, of tenderness. I warmed to my
friends, people with whom I enjoy being and discuss. But do I really loved them?
Am I only able to love? To love someone outside me and that is not me? I tell
myself that I am certainly not alone in this case and they are certainly many
humans who never really liked it, but it's not a reason. I see no excuse or
consolation. The experience of death will take me at least opened my eyes to an
idea that had always seemed tainted stupid sentimentality: he must love to be
happy.
Love is the greatest act of selfishness, the greatest gift that one can offer
oneself. And for now, I have never been able!
And Rose? After all the love I thought, since I died for it. In fact, I do not
love enough. Rose, if I pull you out if we
295
draw from, I assommerai you from my love. On the immense and gratuitous love!
The poor, it will surely surprise of what happens to him. There is nothing
scarier than a great love suddenly delivered by someone who has always tried to
moderate his feelings. It will be scary and delicious at the same time! As I
long to tell him that I am able to understand what it is to love truly!
I accelerate my flight and the others too. Rose is at the end of the tunnel.
After you, like us, is full of knowledge, she crossed the fifth comatic wall and
into the land of the ideal beauty.
Flop !
What a shock!

165

After facing fear, desires, time, knowledge, here is the wonderful green
countryside, flowers, plants, trees splendid shimmering like butterfly wings.
How to describe the indescribable yet? I see a perfect female face, I fly over
his body and he turns into flower petals cathedral stained glass. In clear
lakes, fish with long fins crystal smile at us. Gazelles grenadine hop over the
northern lights.
These are not hallucinations. The ideal beauty brings to the surface all my
beautiful memories and drives them to their climax. My companions also have
their own visions. Neon black butterflies fluttering around Raoul. Silver
dolphins play around Stefania. Freddy is identified young fawns green and white
on the back covered with foam. Somewhere heard the Prelude to the Afternoon of a
Claude Debussy fauna. The beauty of it is the music. And perfumes, I feel
everywhere as light and menthol odor.
Before Rose slows down and then goes again to the attractive central light that
captivates me as well as its waves are positive.
My wife and is the sixth wall. Moch 6. The thanatonaute none in the world is
still never managed to overcome!
As she hurries, she no longer cord hindrance in his race into the unknown!
Floup!
It is on the other side. She is in the Terra incognita!
Freddy tells us that we must now change our position. He demands a broad base
continuing with a fine point. He tells us that only he and I attempt the
crossing. Him, because
296
it is experienced by all, me, because I am only able to convince my wife to come
back. Raoul encourages me. - Come On! Straight, straight into the unknown!
198-PHILOSOPHY SUFI
"I come from the soul that is the origin of all souls I am of this city is the
city of those without city The path of this city has no end, will, lose
everything you have This is what is all.
In the sea of fidelity, I dissolved like salt
It remains for me nor impiety, no faith, no confidence, no doubt
My heart shines a star
And in this star then hid the seven heavens. "
Rubai yachts, Djalâl od Din Rumi.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
199 Y -WE HERE
Freddy amazes me. He moves unashamedly towards this frontier that no human has
never crossed. The cord stretched inordinately, he advanced boldly, and I
dragging its feet. I'm a little tired of the surprises of death. Yet, I feel
there is hidden behind the last mystery, the final mystery of death.
Finally, I will know the most secret secret. Who has caused more deaths than ...
death? Here, behind the curtain, complete all thrillers and all the romance
novels. Here, behind the curtain, science fiction meets fantasy and all
mythologies world merge with the exact science.
I hesitate at first, and then I rush.
The finally here, the ultimate land of Ultimate Continent.
I see it.
For a moment I forget Rose. Mystery of mysteries, secret of secrets, never
revealed to men, I see you. I see you, I feel you, I hear you. Here is the end.
Here is the elephant graveyard. Here dying light,

166

297
all the lights, the sounds, all the sounds. The souls, all souls. The ideas, all
ideas.
I'm in heaven.
Millions of heavenly music in my head explode. Of star debris addressed me kind
of farewell. A star who dies and a man who dies perform the same way. They go to
Paradise.
I walk in the fog, trampling my feet fluffy valuable territory. My arms rise
like translucent for salvation. My knees bend to genuflect. I embrace this blur
ground.
By mistake or out of love, I'm in heaven. And it's beautiful! More beautiful
than all the visions of ideal beauty of the sixth territory. They were only
reproductions and imitations. The real beauty of Paradise surpasses them all.
Heaven is my only country, my only home, the only object of my chauvinism. I am
from here. I seem to have always known this place, have always known that I was
coming from there and then I had to go back. On earth there, so low, I was just
passing. On holiday. I'm an ectoplasm, I've never really been Michael Pinson. I
am only pure ectoplasm. I have never been this sad stupid Michael Pinson.
It is so stupid that type, while my true self is so ... slight. The lightness,
that is the cardinal virtue. My ambition is to remain a thinking steam. I was
tied to the land and to my body. Youthful indiscretion.
I see Rose and I like it more than on land. Why redescendrions us to narrow our
skins, our aching bodies and our brains stuffed staggering worries? We are both
here. We have no fear of time. We no longer afraid of anything.
I do not care Thanatonautes waiting at the door of Paradise. They are beasts to
stay there. I have my country and my world. Revelation revelations. I'm in my
source. I see the real sun. Besides, the other, the Terrans, seems yellowish.
White, true white, pure white only exists in Paradise.
I'm in heaven. I came here to preserve Rose, what a mockery!
The mist is scattered. Beneath me the long line appears dead. It forms as a
river which, further, seems to divide. I
298
down examine the phenomenon more closely. The River of Souls splits into effect
in four branches and in the midst of human souls, I now discerns plant and even
animal souls. No doubt he has a second door Paradise where they were engulfed.
There where marine anemones and algae, bears and roses. The plants also have
souls. I know because now I understand everything.
The absolute syncretism. We are all united and on earth together, we suffered.
We must live by avoiding violence. Do not do violence to others regardless of
their nature, do not do either violence. This law of existence penetrates me to
the end of my toes. So I was just that, a human ignoring vowed to mount a day in
heaven gauge his ignorance.
The river carrying human, animal and plant souls, is divided into four parts.
Which books crammed into the office Raoul evoked they already irrigated by four
rivers countries? Hindus speak in the Jews too. Raoul memory of sentences
through my mind: "HEBREW MYTHOLOGY Paradise is the seventh celestial sphere Two
doors provide access One is prompted to dance and rejoice We see four rivers,
one.... Air, one of honey, one wine, one incense ... "" Paradise is watered by
four rivers ", also said the Koran.
From one end of the world to another, the ancients knew and had used metaphors
to describe the same landscape.
Four rivers. Four subdivisions. Four types of souls, not just the good and evil
rather four tones such as bass, mid, treble and shrill. Four ways to be a soul.
Next Rose, Freddy and I go back four dead rivers.
And suddenly I see the angels.
200 - CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY
"The Blessed then see clearly the solution of mysteries whose raison down here

167

affirmed the truth with the docile submission of faith. The Trinity,
incarnation, redemption, hidden laws of providence in the government of souls,
in the government of the world and its effect on the people whose
299
history is too often for us or riddle or a long scandal. They will experience
the supernatural economy of God's ways for the sanctification of His elect and
the endless wonders of the essence of divinity. "
Monsignor Elie Meric.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
201- AT THE END
From a distance, you'd fireflies.
Angels.
I know from the outset that it is them.
Angels of Paradise.
The show was worth the trip.
Freddy takes me by the shoulders, shaking me like a plum tree. He shouts to me
that we have sworn to take Rose to the land of the living, not to stick with it
to the mainland of the dead. It beseech me not forget my mission. He caught all
my thoughts just now. If we understand quickly, between ectoplasm!
The rabbi speaks and brings me back to reason. Delirium is finished. Death, I
have defeated you in your form of woman in white satin, you never entice me,
even appearing like a paradise.
Freddy is happy. He is aware of having restored calm in my mind. Even Paradise
will be less powerful than my will. I know who I am. A pure soul and a physical
body, for the time not yet dissociated. I am spirit and matter, and spirit must
remain stronger than the material. I have to keep the balance between the heart
and reason.
I know who I am. I know who we are. No two souls among others, but two
Thanatonautes mission. We are not of the dead but of the living Ultimate able to
explore the continent and back. And we are here to save Rose.
We follow the branch "honey" of the dead river. We mingle with them. The dead
watching us in amazement as we always have our umbilical cords. I do not know
why I have not yet broken but in any event shall hold good.
The four lines are very long. You might think at the counter of an overloaded
airport in summer.
300
A loud, I scream "Rose! Rose!" And an old man devoured by his hungry cats
receives my call and tells me it is before. No doubt she has already crossed
checks, no doubt she is already weighing.
- Yes, he telepath, fatalistic. Some souls are sometimes favored. They catch up
and overtake souls waiting in the green country since lots of centuries. Who
knows why ...
- You say she is weighing?
- Of course. A weighing of his soul. They will examine what it has committed to
good and evil in this existence before deciding its next reincarnation.
- And this is where the weighing?
- Straight ahead. You can not go wrong. It's always all right.
202-Taoist Philosophy
"The Wise love this life while it lasts and then forgets to another life. He who
is one with the universal soul keeps its me wherever he goes.
Fire is the fagot what the soul is to the body. He goes to another bundle as the
soul passes to a new body. The fire spread without shutdown. Life goes on

168

unceasingly. "
Chuang Tzu
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
203 -Sheet POLICE
Note to the services concerned
You have refused to intervene to stop them. Now they are there. Hopefully it is
not too late. To you to get by.
Response services concerned
We'll manage.
301
204 - THE WEIGHT OF A SOUL
Freddy and I wade into the white mist among human and non-human souls. We go to
a valley where the four arms of the dead river meet. The dead still advancing
towards the light. Angels surround them more closely.
Angels, a priori, they are like you and me ectoplasm. They do not have umbilical
cords but are wrapped phosphorescent halo and covered with multicolored
movements. They see us and becomes iridescent halo new and fantastic shimmering
as if they were able to express their thoughts by simply changing their colors.
They swirl upwards and from left to right, in the manner of the fetus in a
mother's womb, and ask us what we make here with our cords intact.
- We look for a wife.
An angel declares that he is the one that finds what is lost.
I describe Rose. It confirms that it is close to the weighing. He shows me the
distance, overlooking the valley where converge the four arms of the river, a
light-covered mountain vapors. It's the top hand that the central light that
guides us since our entry into Paradise.
With the dead, we climb the path that leads to light.
On the top, three angels float to get more light than previous.
- It is not like the other angels, blows me Freddy, they are archangels.
In fact, they sparkle, while the crowd of the dead painfully approaches them
slowly.
The rabbi showed me Rose, over us, embedded in the light of the mountain and
shine of the archangels. There, on a terreplein, gather the dead about to
appear.
- At the next, announces an archangel.
The following is Rose.
- Go on, convince them to let her go, I press our rabbi.
He can not follow me. It keeps my cord like his, so stretched that it seems
about to break. We are
302
really playing with our lives. I must continue only while it will ensure the
preservation of our leads.
I fly to the archangels, almost shouting
- Wait! Before judging this woman, I must tell you that we who are alive, we do
not want her to appear before you.
The archangel consider myself without surprise. His telepathic voice is soft and
reassuring. It seems open to all arguments. This agent's death has nothing
scary. He even tries to comfort me along the surrounding gathered deceased.
- Explain yourself.
- Rose is dead, the victim of a gang of thugs, but it has nothing to do here.
The other two archangels are as endorsements. In this light, they remind me a
little alien Encounters of the Third Kind, Steven Spielberg's film.

169

They ask me what right I beg to intercede here. They examine the rabbi behind me
and our cords intact.
- You want her back on earth is this?
- Yes. We are forty live to be fitted up to you to save her.
The three archangels come together for an intense discussion. One deploys a
transparent string full of knots and seems to read many interesting information.
He sees me, sees Rose, still discussing with others and finally speaks
- For forty humans have risked so much, you really that woman is still necessary
to your lower world. We therefore allow to go down but we render her cord if it
so desires and the application itself.
Rose hesitated. Now his fate rests in his hands. I sense that his mind would
finish with pleasure with the game of life. Like me earlier, she imagines that
here is his true home, his only homeland. At the same time, something in it,
maybe the love she dedicated to me, fight against this feeling.
Around us, people and angels are looking forward to which side the balance.
- How lucky to be at this point of a beloved mortal! murmur a Japanese harakiri.
A martyr child approves.
303
An angel points out that this is the first time he saw such a mess.
Another is pleased that we have been left up. The situation is interesting.
Rose stares archangels. But they refuse to intervene in its decision. If
desired, conduct the weighing of his soul. Otherwise, she is free to go back and
to resume the series of his life, with its ups and downs, its good deeds and
bad. It is solely responsible for its destiny.
From a little higher behind Freddy watching. From afar, it is like a wedding in
a fantastic white cathedral. A couple face to face Rose and me behind a long,
gray line of guests, and in front, a mountain of light.
Rose takes a step towards the archangels in doing a second. I hold my breath and
suddenly she turned around and runs into my arms.
- Excuse me, she said, but I still have many things to do down.
Angels, surprised, change color. The scene, which featured so far a clear yellow
appearance, becomes bluer. Archangels smile at us, softened. The little cherubs
as dragonflies are busy. An umbilical cord that I can not distinguish the tip
rises from the belly of my wife to jump to the entrance of the black hole. Rose
is reconnected. Again cord connects his soul to his body.
We join Freddy. He knows that we have succeeded.
The dead greet us
- Welcome back to the material world, guys!
- They will need sighs an American psycho-killer grilled on an electric chair.
I, the material world, I would rather die than to return. If you ask me, life is
a vale of tears.
We will not listen.
The return is obviously more pleasant than the go. We no longer fear for our
umbilical cords. We descend the mountain of light, walk along the four branches
of the river of the dead, then the single river. Like salmon, we departed back
to the source and we will leave that for the better come back later.
Behind the Sixth comatic wall, all our friends are there and mentally applaud
our return. All this time, they attention
304
daient, concerned to see the extreme tension of our umbilical cords, fearing
that we can no longer turn back.
Raoul, Stefania, Amandine, Chinese monks and rabbis who helped us get to the
bottom of life and touch the bottom of the dead flutter happily. We cross
territories and Moch.
Parading beauty, knowledge, patience, pleasure, fear.
We are almost out of the black hole. Outside, the stars pulsate miserably
compared to the great light out there, basically. We voletons, happy, when

170

suddenly appears a sinister band ectoplasm.
205 - HINDU PHILOSOPHY
The man is like a pillowcase. A pillowcase can be red, another black, and so on,
but all contain the same cotton. It is the same for men: one is beautiful, the
other ugly, pious third, fourth villain, but it is the same God resides in all.
"
Ramakrishna.
The extract of the thesis that unknown Mors, by Francis Razorbak.
206 - PÉPIN
We imagined we were reconciled to the Old Man of the Mountain, now deprived of
its haschischins trucidés and its Confederates come to their senses. Not at all.
After some polite in our thanatodrome, had returned to its natural gallop.
Without Thanatonautes Muslims, now that the great alliance was signed between
religions, he rounded up a posse of Thanatonautes mercenaries.
It launches us telepathically that ecumenism is a trap to lull all faiths and
allow Jews to better invade Paradise.
Freddy replies that nobody is owner of Ultimate Continent and it is normal that
priests have agreed to condemn all violence. The last of the replica he knows
haschischins
305
all verbal Entourloupe which are capable rabbis and he will not let it take
over.
I enjoy his company to locate in the large Martinez, our childhood enemy, who
was a candidate-thanatonaute the time of slaughter, and that we had then refused
without it we recognize. He hated us this especially as we had saved from
certain death then. It's funny, but people who have hurt you in want of what
they have done. If you also visit their service, their hatred knows no bounds.
The mercenaries outnumber us and I am very scared. It would be stupid to die
like that after such equipped!
But Freddy knows that the Old Man of the Mountain will actually wants but him.
Precisely because he sought to understand and make a friend after he had tried
to kill him and his family. The hashischin reacts exactly like any Martinez.
To protect ourselves, before we could stop him, Rabbi untie the cord and pulled
away. He attempts a diversionary manceuvre.
- Flee quickly, we he ordered. If we stay together, none of us will return.
We hesitate to give up but his telepathic accents are so imperative that we end
comply, taking Amandine force desperate to fight alongside her husband.
- Freddy! Amandine shouts.
- Go away, leave me, I will become a Lamed Vav.
In the manner of an ectoplasmic lasso, he twirled his silver cord while the
mercenaries based on him.
- Freddy !
The old sage we address soothing signs.
Any last words rang in our ears
- Go! I réincarnerai soon as possible. Watch the birth of a child who will carry
the same initials as me. He will recognize my everyday objects. Flee and
remember: FM!
It receives blows. This makes. With his experience of wars of Paradise, the old
blind rabbi manages to quickly cut the cords of some of his assailants before
they cover it.
Correcting himself, wants Stefania running into the pile. We follow but it is
already too late. The Old Man of the Mountain ruled cord Freddy.
306

171

A final gesture is fatalistic and Rabbi
drawn by light.
The mercenaries then turn against us.
- You and me against the fools, said Raoul.
Melee. Amandine Martinet fight with courage. Rose confronts two hostile souls.
Raoul load some hired killers. And I, no luck, I find myself alone against the
Old Man of the Mountain in person!
The guy does not want me good.
I dodge some blows my best. The other is comfortable with such poor opponents as
me. It passes my umbilical cord around the neck as if to stifle me. He shakes my
soul hurts. It twists my lifeline to the extreme. I expect that will return the
slamming me to the archangels when the grasp relaxes. After getting rid easily
of Martinet, Amandine came from behind and cut the cord to the obstinate
haschischin. Man is scared of what happens to him, a woman knocked
A force to send people in artificial paradises, he suspects that the real to be
less runny. He is desperately trying to revive the shreds of his silver string,
accumulating double knots and safety nodes. But in death as in life, there is no
joker. Cats may have nine lives, but not men. Lost is lost. No haschischin node
is up.
Floup!
The Old Man of the Mountain is drawn by light as a beat by a sink trap. Among
the survivors mercenaries is the stampede.
We push a sigh of relief. Amandine begs us to try to save her husband as we did
for Rose, but we all know that, Freddy, it's too late and we can do nothing.
Sorry, we leave the vortex of Paradise. We emerge on the flared edge of the
black hole where stars incandescent howl of agony their last rays before being
vacuumed.
Descent. Revoici the solar system. Slalom between planets. Hello again Russian
cosmonauts who have hardly advanced since our first pass. Crossing a field of
meteorites. Braking near the moon. Already turquoise ball of earth looming in
our bellies. Here in Europe, here France, Paris here. Could not get lost. Your
ectoplasmic cord will always return you to your starting point.
307
Safe above the capital, dénouons ours and we raccompagnons ectoplasm Rose at St.
Louis hospital. She sinks into the roof as in a swamp. Provided that our getaway
too long will it has not caused permanent damage!
We, we return to thanatodrome. Say my alter ego was there, sitting quietly while
I gave myself so many stunts!
We cross the roof, floors, floors, we regain our body pain.
My ectoplasm and my mortal coil are face to face. The translucent and colored.
Solid and vaporous. The light and heavy. It is now important to pick them. I
enter me like a thick padded ski overalls. No one taught me how to return to his
old skin. I improvise. Just in case, I pass through the top of my head because
this is where I came out.
It's not so nice to have a body of flesh. I feel once my rheumatism, my sores,
my itch, my caries in short, all those little aches persecute you constantly.
Once again I met myself. We are no longer one, my body and my soul. My toes are
invaded tingling.
I slowly raised my eyelids. I rediscover the natural world "and in this" normal
"world, the first thing I see is the display of the electrocardiogram and small
peaks. My heartbeat is réaccélèrent gradually.
When we put all plumb, I hasten to call the hospital. Exactly, they would call
me. Doctors are excited. Miracle, it occurred a miracle! Rose has suddenly
awakened. She is fully conscious. She is fine.
I agree with others, sadly gathered around the chair where Freddy lies, gaping
mouth, as if to us repeating the child's initials in which he will be
reincarnated.
FM

172

His blind glassy eyes are wide open. I approach and gently, tenderly, closes his
eyelids. A never in this existence.
THIRD PERIOD
TIME PROFESSIONALS
207-TEACHING OF THE TAROT
Death is the thirteenth tarot card. It does not have a name. It is in fact a
break in the series of images of the tarot. The first twelve cards as the first
twelve hours of the day. They are "little mysteries".
Past twelve o'clock, noon, arises death and dive into another dimension, that of
the "great mysteries", the other twelve hours of the day.
The deep esoteric sense, the thirteenth Arcanum means death layman who initiated
reborn. The card is not evil.
If it fails to cross the stage of death, we can not progress.
Meaning of the Tarot de Marseille.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
208 - MANUAL OF HISTORY
BELIEFS OF OUR ANCESTORS
Survey conducted in Europe in 1981 (end of the second millennium) on population
beliefs, classified according to their different faiths. (Source: The values of
this time, Jean Stoetzel, PUF, 1983.)
309
Of 100 people believe
A life after death 52
In Paradise
A Hell
A Reincarnation
In the soul separated from the body
In God
209-angelic
No Catholics Protestants
practitioners
45
30
23
66
87
38 43 16 21 56 75
13
8 3 12 24 23
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
- To believe that there are angels ...! And then what?
The Rubicon then, my brother Conrad refused to cross it. His skepticism and
natural materialism had already been submitted to the test. He refused to
advance further in this modern delusion that we had christened thanatonautique

173

name.
Certainly the angels, it was a bit hard to swallow. Besides, if someone had told
me earlier that after death angels greet you, I would have chuckled softly. In
all honesty, I could never believe in half of half of the tenth of all these
things I had lived with my senses.
Everything was so "amazing".
However, admitting that death was a continent was for us the most difficult
stage and we had crossed. We had admitted being with a soul capable of
traveling. We recognized that this was immaterial soul. We accepted that silver
cord attached it to our mortal coil. So why not angels? All religions were
referring to in one way or another, after all.
President Lucinder begged us to keep the secrecy of our recent discoveries. For
now, it was important to conceal what we knew from the depths of Paradise.
- These angels, what a story! He was missing more than that. And why not God,
while you are there?
He felt that we were in possession of a bomb and had to delay its effect. The
President then threw a angry
310
If
learning the assassination of Rabbi Meyer by the Old Man of the Mountain and his
mercenaries.
- What is this turbaned that knows only the language of violence and exclusion?
He wants to make war on the infidels LAHAUT? We will not allow him to hack
Paradise.
- He's already dead, said Raoul. There was a terrible duel but Michael and
Amanda have prevailed and killed.
- Regardless, exclaimed Lucinder behind his mahogany desk, I have over the heads
of the religious wars! We are at the XX1 century, most of the Middle Ages. We
can not forever tolerate intolerance. Let me do it.
210-HINDU MYTHOLOGY
"Man seeks liberation.
Repeat the mantra Hare Krishna thirty-five million times allows to break free of
the most serious sins, namely
- Kicking a man of high caste Brahmins;
- Steal the property of others;
- Grab gold;
- Sleep with a woman of low caste pariahs.
Would we even repudiated all the rules of Dharma we thus obtain the purity and
liberation. N
Times, Samtarana Upanishads.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
211-UNITED NATIONS
The following week, Jean Lucinder, President of the French Republic, delivered a
speech to the General Assembly of the United Nations. He stressed the need to
pacify the Ultimate Continent, now that thanatonautique had entered morals.
After the DIY era, the era of medicine, the era of fear, the era of desire,
economic era, the astronomical era, the era of violence, it was more than time
integer in the legal age.
For legislat ers to take responsibility. The thanatonautick should be subject to a charter, with its laws, amendments, its mandatory
code of conduct. Otherwise, there would be an eternal Far West over our heads.
- We have already passed two laws thanatonautique, and what a result! remarked
wryly, the representative of GuinéeÉquatoriale.
- They are insufficient, it must therefore be new, insisted Lucinder.

174

And facing a rather distracted assistance, it strongly suggested two items that
would be known thereafter as the third and fourth laws thanatonautique.
Article 3. It is forbidden to cut the umbilical cord of some ectoplasm
whatsoever.
Article 4. Each physical body will be held responsible for its activities
ectoplasm.
There followed a schedule for prison sentences and fines proportionate to the
offenses committed by ectoplasm.
The President of the French Republic was categorical: the Ultimate Continent
should remain neutral territory, like the Antarctic. No one should be allowed to
fight or engage in it it in campaigns of ownership.
The UN Secretary General abounded in its meaning
- Paradise is for everyone. If necessary, we will send peacekeepers charged with
maintaining peace and guaranteeing the free movement of people dead and
Thanatonautes.
A murmur of surprise ran the room. The representative of Fiji looked up from his
newspaper and that of Surinam jumped, pulled out of his torpor.
- Yes, why not? continued the general secretary. After all, the Old Man of the
Mountain had indeed raised a private army to appropriate places. We can
therefore quite possible to send it our own intervention force, namely
ectoplasmic peacekeepers. Karmic police, somehow.
The third and fourth laws were adopted by a large majority. Twenty countries
declared themselves against or chose to abstain in order not to attract problems
from the side of Saudi Arabia who all knew, had unofficially encouraged and
financed the operations of the Old Mountain.
However, the proposal to create a karmic police were
312
rejected. There was time for Paradise no violence legitimizing such an operation
which, moreover, was likely to be very expensive. In addition, we returned to
"terrestrial" problems sending any peacekeepers: would they be allowed to rush
when necessary or would they only there to prevent him from killing? In such a
place, what a headache! The delegates preferred to renounce this project
ectoplasmic UN army.
Lucinder was right to bring the issue of ectoplasmic battles in the legal field.
Spoilsport of Ultimate Continent would now ostracized from humanity. Moreover,
with thanatonautiques laws, our business finally received official recognition.
Many suspected that we had exceeded Moch 6 but all the questions, we opposed the
most complete silence.
In the lower store, my mother now marketing a complete plan of Ultimate
Continent, with its six gates and seven known territories. Everything looked a
bit like a trumpet, with widely flared base and a pointed top. The colors were
postponed in order: blue, black, red, orange, yellow, green, white. The menu was
rather pretty and perfect to adorn the wall of a budding scientist or an
unrepentant dreamer.
As a legend, Conrad had with a line the words Terra incognita. Not all-out we
had (really all?) Of this distant territory?
Of course, we indicated a white territory, but we abstain we speak of angels or
light mountain. It was too early.
In the penthouse of our thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont, our team Thanatonautes
held his umpteenth meeting. I was the only one
seeing "Freddy was not there to testify, each assailed me with questions about
what were the K Weighing the Soul" and, of course, reincarnation that followed.
I was telling even telling how we had reached the bottom of Paradise, the
endless line of the dead splitting into four, the vast white plain mountain
weighing, the three archangels-judges.
- I've seen but it is not enough to see. You have to understand.
And my goal of saving my wife, I had not thought àm'informer or ask questions of
the angels. He just seemed to me having arrived there one "weighed" our good and
our bad deeds before being reincarnated as his past life.

175

313
- You imagine the scope of such an assertion? Massena me President Lucmder.
Brandishing a photo of a man with gray temples and under deep he wore constantly
on him, Raoul asked me if I had glimpsed his father.
I pouted. There was a dense crowd of the dead up there. No, I had not seen her
father, as I had also not seen mine. My friend had found himself as the river of
the dead was growing from the Orange territory. Our souls migrated slowly and
tight herd. Can not recognize anyone in this tumultuous flood of millions of
souls in transit.
Amandine, whose usual black robes now had the look of mourning, then questioned
- You really believe that this is the end? That there is nothing after?
I sighed. How to be sure?
- Basically, there is a mountain of light. This is the mountain weighing of
souls that emits this light that draws us from the first door. And then, after
the judgment of karmas, I can not imagine what can happen. I have also seen
anything special behind the mountain for the simple reason that this mountain is
so bright that it hides any possible horizon.
- So there may be something else behind the mountain ..., my wife noticed that
all his dilemma back down here or not, had not cared during his trip to view
premises .
Especially eager to find her father, Raoul proposed a new collective off for
further exploration. I was not too hot to start up there but the others were
obviously very excited to meet the angels, to understand the meaning of their
lives, to see the end of consciousness, and all that, and all that.
Amandine, Stefania and Rose got up immediately hand who volunteer. My wife
claimed to be perfectly recovered from her hospitalization and in great shape.
She wanted to go back up there to verify his hypothesis white fountain on the
other side of the black hole hold water. Regarding Amandine, I believe that
despite the death of Freddy, his "baptism" takeoff had so enchanted that she was
starting lineup for all new adventure.
Willy-nilly, I agreed to be their guide.
314
We décollâmes together a Friday 13. I remember it very well, it was Friday, May
13 A particularly windy day. Outside, the trees bent under tornadoes and clouds
were running after. I do not like the wind but good!
We alignâmes all five of us in our plastic ovoid, our special suits connected to
computers. Video purred.
Six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Liftoff ...
I pressed pear. Forward for the country of angels.
212-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
Three souls correspond to three brains
- Hypothalamus: Ruach. The level of our survival needs eat, drink, sleep,
reproduce.
- Limbic system: Nefesh. Level of emotions: fear, desire, desire, emotion.
- Cortex: Nechamah. Level of reason: logic, strategy, philosophy, aesthetics and
ability to control the other two brains.
According to Kabbalah, several mental and physiological changes occur at the
exact time of physical death. The Zohar explains that the Nefesh or our bioenergy, dissolves with the deterioration of the body. The Ruach, linked to the
vital energy flow, remaining a little longer but eventually dissipate. The
transcendental party, the Nechamah completely abandons body shape. This upper
part of the Self is then received by the souls of those who loved during his
earthly existence. His father already deceased and family members gather around
the Nechamah and he sees them, he recognizes them as any he has known here and
all accompanying his soul where it must remain.

176

At the time of death, he was allowed to see his parents and friends of the
hereafter. If the deceased was righteous, they rejoice and welcome him.
Otherwise, it is only recognized by those thrown into the Gehinom (purgatory).
This is where the souls are washed of their filth.
The Gehinom is discovered after physical death. His need could be compared to
that of a good shower after a
315
grueling match or passage through a decompression chamber of a scuba diver
before rising to the surface.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
-In 213 ANGELS
My second ectoplasmic journey was worse than the
first. On my first flight, I thought only of rescuing Rose and think of others
allows to forget his own anxieties.
There I was thinking about too many things along the way. Would there be
mercenaries or another haschischin few worshipers of Beelzebub in ambush, ready
to attack us by surprise and cut our umbilical cords?
I was scared.
I hid my fear.
In tight squadron, we were gliding through space at the speed of thought. We
crossed the Sun, due to the Earth's rotation, was then directly on the path
leading to the center of the galaxy.
I refoulais my eternal parasite issue ("By the way, what do I ..."). Finally,
you know what question I mean.
Review the Russian cosmonauts not even made me laugh. Skip from meteorites gave
me goosebumps and approach each new planet seemed a good opportunity to rest my
ectoplasm.
J e regarded the surrounding galaxy. As it was great! The stars do you want in
here. Someone should do the cleaning up of all these stars that roam the Milky
Way. The Milky Way! The Greeks had called because this star burst evoked them
squirt milk out of the breast of the goddess Hera, wife of Zeus.
Bathed in breast milk, as tourists we sail to the land of the dead.
To forget my fear, I really enjoy the spectacle constantly renewed the
interstellar world. While he flies, my ectoplasm sees everything.
The Orion Nebula looks like a Saint-Jacques shell
316
Forgot dissolve. I have identified the star cloud called Horsehead which indeed
resembles a kind of ended with a neck angle. Further to my left, there is the
line bounce Cygnus and then the variable stars in the Magellanic Clouds, such
Aune spilled salt shaker. Vega arrives supernova. All these names appear
naturally to mind, but in fact, it's the Rose blowing me away. She understood
that this astral spectacle fascinates me and it gives me knowledge. Wonderful
woman!
Turn. Far ahead of us, right, there are the Andromeda galaxy. It is sweat and
separate from ours of barely two million light years. Around its central axis,
the stars in Andromeda are more yellow than ours. Probably because they are
younger. This suggests that our good old Milky Way is older than its parent
Andromeda.
An astronomy courses open space is fabulous! More exciting than any safari.
But here too, there are wild animals. In the constellation Hound (fluke), two
galaxies are about to touch. The smallest in form of sea urchin, is attracted by
the larger, spiral.
- This is the galaxy M51, a galaxy carnivore, telepathically explains Rose. It
is so huge that it sucks all other galaxies come in range. There she is

177

devouring the galaxy NGC 5195. When the two masses are sufficiently close to one
another, one of the spiral arms of M51 will advance to capture NGC 5195.
- And "eat"?
- No. They will join to form an even more massive galaxy, thus more attractive
and even more carnivorous.
Like what predation is everywhere. Even inanimate matter knows his dramas.
We drive to our central objective forever. We cross exotic planetary systems,
clouds of red and white dust, life frozen meteorites with their first fruits
ready àéclore on a planet that will allow them to exist. Some areas of star
clusters succeeding to large empty spaces where there is more than black, cold
and nothing.
Here finally the corolla of the black hole of death. Stars collide on its edge,
surrounding the entrance of the huge tunnel of an effervescent circle.
We build our five silver cords in a safety strap
317
tight and, using one of ectoplasmic Freddy choreography, set off again to the
collision of the last zone.
First territory: we are sucked into the vortex, just like the "light juice"
nearby stars and all kinds of waves and particles. We reach the beach of
Ultimate Continent. The membrane of the first comatic wall vibrates like an
eardrum or when one hits the crossbar. Here, the world of the dead also
resembles a human ear. Schlouf! I spend the soft wall.
Second area: again the fear of the past, the fight against tireless monsters.
These gatekeepers will always be there waiting for me at home of late.
Third territories: even my fantasies always redder, more and more black. I like
to find the good. As it must be awful, life without fantasies! I do not let
myself bogged however, neither my desires nor my pleasures.
Fourth territory: patience. The river of the dead passes slowly in the orange
plain. I fly over the seething mass, this time paying more attention to those
who compose it. Miracle, I recognize so many people I wanted to meet! Marylin
Monroe, Philip K. Dick, Jules Verne, Rabelais, Leonardo da Vinci. Also urge few
mythical figures of my history books: Charlemagne, Vercingetorix, George
Washington, Winston Churchill, Leon Trotsky.
She is so heterogeneous, that crowd. There again James Dean, Fred Astaire (who
can not help to sketch a few steps from tap to pass the time), Molière, Gary
Cooper, Queen Margot, Lilian Gish, Louise Brooks, Zola, Houdim Mao Zedong, Ava
Gardner, the Borgias (grouped in family around Lucretia).
The most impatient strive to remain at the center of the river to light quickly.
The less disciplined hang around. Many took advantage of the halt to unusual
encounters.
We argue in the family of the last Russian tsar, each accusing the other of not
having foreseen the Revolution. Louis XVI tries to reconcile: it either did not
see it coming. He turns to discuss mapping with Marco Polo. The passion of this
friendly Royal ectoplasm, that was it: the mapping. He cared a little also to
the locksmith, but draw the rivers of Canada and move the words Terra incognita
were really unknown and the preferred hobby of Louis XVI.
318
Paradise, it really is the ultimate in chic lounge where you cause! I cue up
Victor Hugo with his long beard, flirting Diana the Huntress. Raoul is friendly
but it still launches puzzles and does not give the solution. I landed near
Victor Hugo and the opportunity to ask him for the solution of his charade on
the baking. At first he is annoyed because I disturbed its drag but when I
explain my reasons, he laughs and tells me.
. "My first is talkative, it is a talkative My second is a bird, it's my third
bird is the coffee is coffee solution:... The pastry is the Bavarian coffee
because it ' was so easy that I had not thought of. "
What a chance to ask questions to the most knowledgeable people. If I had more
time, I would look to know the secret to Stradivarius glues his precious

178

violins. I would try to find out where Saint-Exupery disappeared and why from
above there are giant drawings on Chile and Peru.
I suddenly spotted a familiar face. My great-grandmother Aglaé! I rushed towards
her. She recognized me immediately and includes outset why I approached so fast.
Yes, she had seen how I behaved to her death but she did not want me because she
had read in my heart my true feelings. Many others weeping were only hypocrites
eager to attract attention!
I'm so happy that I wanted to get my father to tell him. But my greatgrandmother Aglaé teaches me that she had already informed and that, moreover,
it is now far ahead.
I resume my flight, lighter spirit.
Downstairs Raoul vain search his father, Felix crosses Amandine and pretends not
to recognize him, despite the desperate calls of the first of Thanatonautes.
Stefania plane quietly audessus of the crowd of the dead, continuing its way to
the light. My wife astronomer is leading our group, eager to see if the
background of the black hole gives on a white fountain.
Fifth territory: up to beauty. Purple lace flower beds alternate. Purple, ocher,
red, yellow, fractal images shimmer endlessly. Iridescent butterflies escape
from pink beaks of swallows. Blue frogs, black and white deploy dragonfly wings.
A golden unicorn stands on its hind legs. Beauty is polymorphic. As fear.
319
Sixth territory: knowledge. I discovered by chance, and without asking, the
recipe for pound cake. A quarter of butter, a quarter of flour, a quarter of
sugar, a quarter of eggs. This too is part of knowledge. We should not I forget
the recipe before my return to earth.
Seventh territory: we came together before Moch 6, our always connected cords.
This trip was possibly less exciting to no longer be the first takeoffs but
never did become a routine. The shuttle Challenger had she not explode while in
force exploits were beginning to believe spaceflight definitely safe? Nothing is
safe even if the disembodiment proved a method of discovering the universe
really soft. At no time, he had wasted our caution. We were far, far away and
quickly, so quickly. At this rate, the slightest incident could take on dramatic
proportions.
We discovered now, we would have never been able to detect, even with the best
telescope onboard satellite! We were in the stars, in the center of the galaxy,
the black hole at the bottom and with the possibility of escape. What astronomer
could feed greatest ambition?
For us, the five musketeers of death, it was now the end of the journey. We had
reached the large curtain concealing the last aspect of death. I walked while
others hesitated soul follow. They saw that the river of the dead pierced the
membrane 6 but Moch apprehend the last face life filled with fear every rational
being. I shrugged. After all, I, I've been there. I lifted a piece of the
terrifying curtain and invited my friends to follow me.
Aggressive and both magnetic, flamboyant light hit us. For me, surprised, I saw
be happy to find this vast white plain cylindrical and its veils of mist. Below,
the river of the dead scindait four heads.
Halos appeared the first of the angels, so colorful, so bright face our
ectoplasm so dull! If you ask me one day what is the best ambition of a man, I
now know the answer: the most beautiful ambition is to make his soul as
beautiful as that of a benevolent angel. But how to achieve such a feat?
Angel at the sporty look fluttered toward us and asked us why we are here, with
our cords intact. Curiosity? Desire to advance science? Even Stefania language
320
usually so glib remained quite quiet. It was "he" who answered AOur up
- You are Great Initiates, is not it?
- Of what? Raoul wondered.
- The Great Initiates, patiently repeated the angel.
Apparently our intrusion did not surprise too. "Great Initiates", "they" had a

179

term for the "living" who advanced so far. This meant that others had already
preceded us and had kept the information secret. Other Thanatonautes? Monks,
shamans, rabbis, sages who quietly and without the aid of modern technology,
would addicted to this kind of journey from the dawn of time?
The angel smiled. I then understood why he and his colleagues had not asked me
problems during my first visit to Paradise. The "Great Initiates" has always
they were accustomed to receive, although we later learned, their visits had
hardly been frequent.
214-SIBERIAN MYTHOLOGIE
In Siberian shamanistic religion, after death everything is reversed. One enters
a country where everything is up is down, everything is clear becomes obscure.
Sometimes you into the land of the dead at a shamanic ceremony, during an
illness, poisoning or a dream. Sometimes you make a foray into the land of the
dead without noticing.
That is why we need to know some specifics.
In the land of the dead, trees grow upside down by drawing up their roots, the
rivers flow towards the mountains, the night is bright under black light of the
moon, while the day is dark in the pale reflection of the sun .
These are small details to know for sure that we are no longer among the living.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
321
215 - ASALIAH
Our host was called Saint Jerome in French, Asaliah in Hebrew, which means "one
who tells the truth." But he had a name in many other languages. He was Ptah for
the Egyptians, Sumerians Enki for Apollo for the Romans, the Gauls for Mapanos,
Dianceht for Irish Celts, Freyr for the Germans, for Svarog Slavs Savitr for
Hindus, Xochipilli for the Aztecs, for Illapa the Incas ...
His task here was to uncover the truth and to help souls to rise spiritually.
Willingly, he answered questions from Raoul on the organization of Paradise.
There were seventy-two main angels and seven hundred thousand angels side. The
hierarchy was simple. A first triad consisted of the Seraphim, Cherubim and
Thrones, a second Virtues, Dominions and Powers. The third, highest, united
Principalities, Archangels and Angels. Three major archangels: the archangel
Gabriel (messenger and initiator), the Archangel Michael (the slayer of
dragons), the Archangel Raphael (guide physicians and travelers).
We had a choice: we could consider angels as saints, Lamed Vav or Bodhisattvas,
Buddhas, Elected, or Tsadiks. Their designations varied religions. They were
perfect that had managed their lives and could break the cycle of reincarnation
but had nevertheless preferred to devote himself to the management of souls in
transit. For us not to lose, we optâmes for the generic "angel".
With that, Jerome-Ptah-Xochipilli apologized. With the crowd which pressed down,
it was not the job that was missing. We continued our tour only.
I wondered if, on top of these cohorts, there was still a god or gods. The Jews
well say that God is one and yet Freddy had taught me in Hebrew, God Elohim and
says that this name is plural. So?
Seventy two main angels ... This figure also reminded me of something.
- The number of rungs of the ladder of Jacob, Raoul remembered me
telepathically.
322
216-ANGELS MAJOR
Some examples of major denominations of angels, from the Bible but could as well
be Greek, Chinese, Indian, etc.

180

1 `angel VEHUIA, who is the master of meditation and spiritual enlightenment.
2nd angel JELIEL, who soothes the unjust revolts.
3rd angel Sitael, one that protects adversity.
4th angel Elemiah, one that can detect traitors.
5th angel MAHAASIAH, one that allows us to live in peace with those around him.
6th angel Lelahel, who cures diseases.
7th angel ACHAIAH, one that helps to unlock the secrets of nature and to
implement new technologies.
8` angel CAHETHEL, who chase away evil spirits.
9th angel HAZIEL, who helps found favor Great and keeping promises.
10th angel ALADIAL, one who protects those who fear that we discover their
secrets.
Among the most useful, in bulk, there are still
12th angel HAHAIAH, who dominates the world of dreams and sometimes reveals, in
a dreamlike shape of the sacred mysteries.
13th angel IEZALEL, the ruler friendship, reconciliation and marital fidelity.
14th angel MEBAHEL, one that protects makeshift usurpers.
16th angel HAKAMIAH, one that protects malicious traitors.
17th angel LAUVIZH, he who keeps the sadness and terror of the night.
18th angel Caliel, one that brings a fast rescue during unexpected blows of
fate.
20th angel PAHALIAL, one that protects priests and magicians.
23` angel Melahel, who can travel without incident.
26th angel HAAIAH, the one who saves the trials.
38` angel Haamiah, one that helps to discover the treasures.
42nd angel MIKAEL, who protects the politicians and rulers.
50th angel DANIEL, who gives inspiration to those who are torn between several
choices.
323
53rd angel
59th angel
parents.
69th angel
72nd angel

Nanael, one that helps scientists.
HARAEL, who convinces the kids to be more respectful to their
ROCHEL, one that helps to find lost or stolen have those objects.
MUMIAH, one that helps companies succeed and men live longer.

NB In case of specific problems, in contrast to the popular phrase "better to go
to God as his saints", it is recommended to call the angel specialized in the
globality rather than divine matters .
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
217 - IN GOOD COMPANY
Stefania, who had found his range, landed an angel appeared simultaneously male
and female. His companions did not spoke to him and he himself did not seem to
wish them company.
- What's your name?
He too was not too surprised to see us there. He readily answered
- Samael. But in your world, often called me Satan or Angel of Death and Hades
or Great Hermaphrodite, Nergal for the Sumerians, Seth for Egyptians. I must
still be known as a lot of other names but, sorry, they do not come to me every
MIND.
He shone with a strange light ... A black light! A bit like those lamps which in
nightclubs, give a raw white clothes coloring.
Stefania repressed cringe.
- And we tolerate you here in Paradise? He had a thunderous laugh.
- Of course. Heaven, Hell, it's the same thing. We tolerate me here as below in
your world. I am also the most indispensable of all the angels. I seduce the
ignorant, I push them in their evil inclinations to better prove their

181

ignorance. Certainly I
324
is aware that I have on earth a bad image, but yet it is only proving their
ignorance ignorant we can make progress! Thanks to me, those who are wrong can
resume. Your wisdom tells it not to go up before it must hit bottom? I help
people to bottom to go up.
Suddenly, his expression no longer had anything "satanic."
- Actually, I am at the service of good but perhaps so too original for you to
understand.
Stefania thinking. I had already understood. It was neither by empiffrant or
fornicating nor himself drunk that triggered disasters and deadly conflicts! The
greatest wars have always been launched in the name of good, never evil one. And
this same wisdom invoked by Samael does it not also ensured that an evil can
come good?
As he walked away, an angel standing as Peter Aniel-Hermes-Mercury, the angel
clarification, we explained that devils were only shadows of angels.
- You are Peter! exclaimed Stefania, the Italian who had not forgotten his
catechism. You are the guardian of St. Peter the keys of heaven?
- Yes, he said. Great previous Insider nominated me as well because I'm often
the only angel to take the time to inform newcomers.
- Saint-Jérôme Xochipilli has already taken the trouble to provide some
explanation.
- So you got lucky.
- What does that mean, "the keys of Paradise"?
Saint Pierre Hermes gently nodded.
- There are no keys in the material sense of the term. This is an image. In
fact, I give the keys for understanding Paradise.
Thereupon he returned to the seventy-two main angels. Like any angel, they have
their setbacks dark, seventy two main devils so. All have their own palace here
called a sphere. In all, there are so hundred forty-four.
Saint-Pierre Hermes is verbose. It opens other locks. Gabriel, the Great
Archangel, is the projection of the Devil himself, and vice versa. Correspond to
the three archangels Big Three Princes Demons: Beelzebub, Shaitan and Yog
Sottoth, the Crawling Chaos described in the Apocalypse.
- Impressive, that one, right?
325
He refers us a completely black angel filamentous, quickly sliding over the dead
of the river. At his approach, the ranks tremble as under an icy breeze.
- Can we contact angels without going up so far? demandaije.
- Of course. Every human being has his guardian angel actually and his personal
demon.
Thus, and has always been popular imagery that seemed so naive had only reveal
the "truth" true. Guardian Angel, personal demon ...
The Great Initiates had transferred their knowledge in the most accessible form
possible and, hence, "we" had not taken seriously, calling all these belief mere
superstition. Yet "on" knew. At least, many people knew. And for a long time.
Always.
- Guardian Angel and demon staff are given the day of birth. Then they will be
there to intercede for the soul at its weighed by the archangels. There is a
simple way to àeux call. Just pray or produce an emotion corresponding to the
domain of one of us. Vibration then shakes the meridian of its sphere. The angel
descends to judge if there is reason to intervene. We function only on a
vertical fashion, from top to bottom and bottom to top. We are each associated
with an emotional meridian, acting hoist, which is programmed for a single
state: anger, peace, harmony ... No free will. Unable to change register. I, for
example, I only helps those who want to "understand" because I am holy PierreHermes, the angel of the keys and clarification.
There. It was as simple, as "mechanical" than that. It was enough to think that

182

an angel to intervene. I finally grabbed the power and utility of prayer. To
pray is to seek the intervention of a very specific angel.
- Obviously, there is a price to pay, clarified our initiator.
I furrowed my eyebrows ectoplasmic. How does the services of angels were not
free? How monnayaient they?
- In karma. It is a barter. Be prepared to give up some of its energy to make a
wish at least to have an internal state of purity as it can receive without
compensation angelic help. But this is rare.
A barter? Yes. A bit like in Faust. You have to sell his soul
326
to have power. I mentally consignai the keys provided by Peter Hermes
1. Follow the angels and not to allow any negative thoughts to them.
2. Always go through their hierarchy solicitation must be transmitted to the
lower angels by specialized senior generals angels.
3. Each solicitation is paid in loss of energy, erosion of karma, a sacrifice of
his own person, unless to enjoy the behavior of a saint.
4. It may seek both an angel than devil. Their effectiveness is identical, only
the price is different. To accomplish a vengeance, so it's best to use an angel
of justice than an angry devil.
5. You can not ask an angel one thing at a time. An angel equal a mission and
for a given period.
6. The mission accomplished, release the angel saying "I no longer need you." An
angel must not remain too long on earth. It generates a mess. He must return as
soon as his palace. If he stays too long empty, negative energies may rise
corresponding lower spheres.
Hatred vibrates the sphere corresponding to the hierarchy of hatred, which is
probably run by a devil of the lower worlds. Love mobilizes a sphere of higher
worlds. The white angels are activated by love of the Good, the black by the
love of evil. Anyway, all prayers are heard.
Suddenly, life became very clear to me. In life, we always get what we want.
When one does not get it is that you do not really desire. The angels
themselves, distinguish the true wishes of children whims. They do not realize
that early.
With these good telepathic words, I think that if the world learned that it was
possible to have everything we desire, we had not finished with the problems.
The Great Initiates of all time had been right to always surround their mystery
revelations.
Saint Pierre Hermes jumped as if he had just received a call and we left.
Probably someone on earth was praying for him to come.
Amandine, Stefania, Raoul, Rose and I continued to browse the site as much as we
allow our umbilical cords knotted.
327
Seraphim played about how many small oiseauxmouches in human form. I grabbed one
and then noticed he had pledged six wings, similar to dragonflies.
- Why did you six wings, little angel?
He looked at me with disdain.
- It's in all the Bibles. I have two wings to cover my face, two to cover my
sex, two to finally fly.
Faced with this tiny cherub who made fun of my ignorance, I dared the big
question that had burned my lips during our interview with Pierre Hermes saint.
But I realized that the big key provider would agree to give those he wanted to
confide. My seraph was probably less experienced in the field.
- Tell me, good angel, I have seen here of the dead, angels, archangels,
devils ... But there he was a god, a god above you?
He gave a small movement towards the back of the mountain.
- What do I know? he said. We never look at god here but some angels however
believe that God exists and is everywhere. For my part, I'm agnostic. I'm like
St. Thomas you may croiseras, I believe what I see.

183

He laughed a little angel.
I insisted, looking too light mountain doomsday.
- And back there, is that the corridor of Paradise continues?
- Who knows? he said with malice. Maybe yes and maybe he leads to God. Me, my
place is here. And you, your place is at the bottom.
He flapped his wings and fled.
Rose pushed us to go behind the mountain if there was indeed a white fountain
balancing the black hole, but our silver cords were already too stretched to
venture farther. Moreover, Stefania insisted that we returned as soon as our
carnal envelopes. We were pai tis for some time and we had to hurry up so we did
not want to risk not to find that a lot of necrotic flesh.
Regretfully, we rushed to our thanatodrome.
328
218-ARAB MYTHOLOGIE
At the tomb, the deceased is subject to the judgment of two angels
Munkar and Nakir. According to their decision, the tomb becomes preliminary
hell, purgatory robin or preliminary paradise. Angels can then intercede with
God to save the damned. Thanks to them, they will come out of hell and then
become similar to tso'rom (small cucumbers). By bathing successively in three
rivers, they will regain their whiteness.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
219-FIRST CONCERNS
Upon our return, Raoul sprang from his chair. He was excited His dark eyes
flashed and his hands fluttered around her body as two malignant spiders.
- What does he? Have you seen your father?
- No, but an angel told me his story.
- Saint-Pierre Hermes?
- No, he refused, but Satan, he readily acceded to my request.
The desire to know Raoul was always so intense that it was obviously produce a
strong vibration. But the truth étaitelle so horrible that only a black angel
can reveal him? I shudder even before my friend had begun his story.
Towards the end, Satan had told Mr. and Mrs. Razorbak does intend at all.
Francis completely forsaking his wife and devoted himself entirely to writing
his thesis, The Death that unknown. The more he advanced in his research, the
more she walked away. She even came to take a lover, a certain Philippe.
The inevitable happened. Raoul's father surprised one day lovebirds in full
frolic. Anger. Dispute. Divorce threat. Ms. Razorbak took the high and assured
him that she would fight to the end. If there was separation, it would not
happen at his expense, but ASON advantage, with strong support and custody of
Raoul.
The same evening, Francis Razorbak clung to his flush. For his son, it was not a
suicide but a murder. By his adulterous behavior, his mother had pushed his
father, so sensitive, to the worst end. So she quietly perceive the heritage and
benefit at will from her lover.
329
No one had broken through the deception. It was logical that a philosophy
professor fascinated by death manages to give it to better discover the other
side of the mirror. Even Raoul had thought! Without the help of Satan, he would
never have known the truth.
The truth is the worst of all weapons and dark angel did not skimp on the
details and mobile. In fact, it was as if for the first time, a police
investigation had been resolved in Paradise. What opportunities offered
discovering the Continent Ultimate!
In the penthouse, in front of Amandine cocktails, We tried to appease our

184

friend. But all our entreaties seemed to produce the opposite effect on him.
More we repeated to him that this whole thing of the past, the more we pray to
make sense of things, to leave the dead in peace and live their lives, more
Raoul sank in his fury.
- She killed him, she killed my father! he cried, his head in his hands shaped
greenhouses.
- No, he committed suicide. You can not know what he had in mind when he passed
through the chain.
- Not me, but Satan yes. My father loved his wife and she betrayed him, that's
all.
- Satan does is push the ignorant in their ignorance, I insisted.
But Raoul was no longer able to reason a cool head. It's as if everything around
him was distorted by this obsessive idea.
At the height of rage, he got up, overturning chairs and glass and went hurtling
stormed the stages of thanatodrome.
Guessing what he intended to do, I looked hurriedly his mother's phone number to
warn her. I told him that his son, now convinced that she had caused the death
of his father, ran for revenge. She swore to me that he was wrong, it is easily
justified but hastened to hang up.
Some business quickly thrown into a bag and she was already gone when Raoul
disfigured by hatred smashed his door.
He returned, look bad. Not finding his mother, he was dark in the famous
Philip's lover at the time. He had rushed over him but it was the other,
beefier, who had knocked. All this was a ridiculous! Proud thanatonaute had
become an angry kid, stomping and willing to destroy everything!
Since it is easy to get overwhelmed by hatred!
330
For the first time, I understood that it is better often do not know the truth.
Better to pursue the catch, and that was why St. Pierre-Hermes was silent.
Freddy does he not say that "the wise seeks the truth while the fool has already
found"?
- My mother is the worst bitches, Raoul thundered back with us.
- Who are you to dare to judge? Stefania became angry while passing a wet cloth
on her bruises. After all, your father also had his faults. He forsook it and
was only interested his books. You've admitted yourself that it is virtually
never held you either. She, she raised you!
But Raoul was in such a state that it was impossible to
reason.
- My father was a learned philosopher, he repeated. He had vowed Ala science. It
opened the way to research on death. And my mother killed him!
Rose put her cool hand on his burning forehead.
- Nothing is simple, she whispered in his musical voice. In fact, you should
thank your mother. In "suicide" your father, she created in you a thirst for
knowledge, an appetite that needed to be filled. With it, you have completed
your studies in biology, thou hast specializes in hibernation marmots, you
became a pioneer of thanatonautique and you finally discover the Ultimate
Continent.
- And the truth, too, muttered Raoul.
- If it's any consolation, remember that up there, it will inevitably be judged
one day. Like the others, his soul will be weighed. Angels have all the elements
of the case, including the testimony of your father. Justice will be done. It is
only human pride to imagine that we can do justice here below. Justice is an
illusion.
- Yes, I renchéris. Trust the angels and destiny. LAHAUT, they will punish it
deserves.
- Perhaps they will be reborn into a toad? Amandine suggested to comfort him.
He gulped a shot of cognac she served him and demanded another.
- There surely happy toads, he groaned. I want her to be reincarnated as well
for cockroach crush of a kick.

185

Me too I demanded a drink.
- You know, Raoul, I think you should make a good
331
psychoanalysis, I sighed, because in fact you were not ready àentendre
revelations of Satan.
- Do not forget that Satan is still an evil angel noticed Amandine.
Raoul I grabbed him by the shoulder.
- Remember, we fought together against Satan worshipers and here you are now
doing by him to support you solve your little personal problems! You're just one
operetta Faust.
I suddenly had enough to see him wallowing in his rage, I wanted to shake like a
plum tree that sad drunken wreck.
- Listen to me! I exclaimed. We will still need you to thanatodrome, every day
and every minute. So, forget your mother. We have no time to lose.
Raoul broke into a bad laugh.
- What is the gentleman I know it all comes to lecture me? Say, you got a little
watched, Michael? I also learned beautiful on you.
I shrugged.
- Impossible, I say. Satan has confided in your father because you wanted all
your heart. But why he would have spoken of me?
- My friend, my old friend, my oldest friend ... I vibrated strong enough to
teach me that two truths about you.
Instinctively, I knew that these truths would hurt. Only your real friends know
where to hit it hurts. I wanted to shout "Go, viper, spit your venom!", But fear
prevailed. I bouchai the ears while he was delivering his revelations. At the
mine of the three women, I realized it was serious. This was especially the
second information that had most affected Rose.
No sooner had I removed my hands from my ears that Raoul stammered
- You did not hear that right? You want me to repeat it?
- I do not want to know anything! I cried.
But before I had time to put my fingers in my ear pavilions, he was screaming
already
- Your parents were sterile! You and Conrad you are only adopted children! A
truth.
I had the impression of having been hit by a truck. The craft has long pursued
me. He had just reduced me to a pulp. Everything was collapsing around me. My
past was no longer my past. My
332
family had never been my family. My father was not my father. My mother was not
my mother or my brother my brother. And arrièregrand mother Aglaia ...
Raoul stared at me with delight. My turn to suffer! A sadistic expression
painted on his face as he was about to send his second missile.
- Truth both!
A truck that crushes you, it's bad. No way to pass another on your already hot
and bloody entrails. I pushed very, very hard my fingers into my ears. Do not
know. Especially, do not know. Please, be left first digest the first truth. But
there it was, Raoul must have already set out again the second. The disarray
read in Amandine looks, Stefania and especially Rose. Furious, I detached my
hands to clear a dazzling punch in the chin of one who had been my best friend.
Gently massaging the figure it flashed an evil and delighted face.
- Thank you, he said. I like to get a good uppercut ... Especially on the part
of my "best friends".
I had to answer something for the nose permanently. I do not have time to think
about a fine repartee. I mouthed a phrase that meant nothing, as if I had
uttered a sentence.
- This is the one who says that is!
220-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE

186

"(...). They will see the world that is invisible to them now and they will see
that the time is now hidden from them. Moreover, the time will not make them
grow old. Because they remain in the hills of this world, they are like the
angels and like the stars, they will be transformed into any shape they desire,
beauty and grace, glory glory to light. For them to extend the spaces of
Paradise. We will show them the eminent beauty of living which are under the
throne and all the host of angels who are now prevented by my word to be seen by
command and forced to stand in their places until the coming of their coming. "
Baruch, LI, 8-11.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
333
POLICE 221- SHEET
Note to the services concerned
Confidential information transmitted to mortals by unscrupulous angels. Risk of
adverse consequences. Necessary intervention to put an end to this dangerous
adventure.
Response services concerned
You always go crazy for trivia. We fully control the situation. Everything is
always very well. There is no reason for it to go differently this time.
222 -Manual HISTORY
It is necessary to be very hard to face the truth. How many of us can they hear
the truth and keep their cool? When were including the adverse effects of
thanatonautique, the Ministry of Education instituted very quickly during ASV
(Clash Serein of Truth). This teaching was first confined to the upper classes
but quickly spread in the elementary grades. It recently became part of the
baccalaureate.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
223 - ORPHAN
Hardly regained our room, Rose and I made love. It was she who had rushed
towards me. She whispered to me that she wanted a child very quickly me. I was
lucky. I also wanted a child of her long ago.
Until then, we only had dc7s animals and plants. Stayed there gradually. First,
a green plant (monotone) and an orange (which produced fruit inedible) and a
goldfish (Leviathan, we had found one day, for no reason, the belly up), then
the Zouzou sea turtle (constantly busy to eat all small maggots) and guinea pig
(named Bouyebouye because he squeaked all the time "bouy, bouy, bouy" to inform
us that he was hungry), then a cat that ate the pig
334
India, then a dog (who had avenged the guinea pig constantly tormenting the
cat).
A child would now be welcome. Would not that turn to avenge the cat pulling the
dog's ears, tail, legs, eyelids and nose. Children are naturally gifted to
restore ties.
Always scientist, Rose consulted a calendar.
- The dates could stick, she decreed.
- With a little luck we could even give birth to the reincarnation of Freddy, I
remarked.
Freddy said he foncerait in Orange countries to try to reincarnate in one year.

187

Um, three months had already passed ... But with a little luck, maybe we could
do it anyway.
Anyway, the idea delights Rose. It would be fantastic to become the parents of
the reincarnation of Freddy.
Again we were pioneers. Who had ever thought afaire a child container of a
preselected soul? It was almost as if we manufactured a vase to put flowers in
stock.
- At work, I say cheerfully.
Our embrace was happy, yet I found as a sad expression on the face of Rose when
she rested her head on the pillow.
I asked him what was wrong suddenly. She sighed and made me swear to always
cover my ears when Raoul seek àm'assener the second truth.
- It will pass, I say. Raoul is bitter because he was unhappy to learn that his
mother killed his father, I understand.
- But you have nothing to do, she protested. I do not see why, by what unhealthy
pleasure, he now desperate to reveal to you the ugly secrets of Satan. In any
case, you totally sounded. I did not know my husband had such a talented boxer!
fitelle by shaking again against me.
I pouted.
- This is the first time I hit someone with such a desire to hurt her ... And
then I lost my best friend.
- No, she said confidently. Raoul has nothing against you. As serinait my uncle
William: "When someone is angry against you, it is not really angry against you,
it is only angry against himself."
335
We refîmes love. I chased the "in fact, what I do ..." parasite always to
replace the soon by thoughts and feelings much more enjoyable.
Then Rose, ravishing in her nightgown, leaned on the balcony to contemplate the
starry night. The moon was huge. All around, the stars were their interesting.
- I sometimes wonder if we are not playing the sorcerer's apprentice, she
grumbled. Look how the discovery of the last area of Paradise threw us against
each other.
- You're not even when obscurantists who want support for a ban our
explorations?
- No of course. Simply place safeguards to avoid nasty spills. The Raoul's story
is perhaps a warning. You imagine, if anyone goes there and comes across an
angel who tells her untimely truths!
- Just keep calm. Raoul told me that I was an orphan, so what? This did not
alter my behavior. Rather, I am now more grateful to my adoptive parents for
having me and raised.
I was tempted to ask him the second truth to see if I could cash it. She
refused. She made me promise to never ask to hear it. I read in her eyes that
she was convinced that this one would cause much more damage than the first.
Yet I did not see what could be more terrible than to hear that parents who had
always been his thought were not our real parents.
We went to sleep in the arms of one another.
In the morning, Raoul was not there. He had disappeared no one knew where.
I remained alone in thanatodrome with "my" three women: Rose, Amanda and
Stefania. My wife had set one of the walls of the penthouse a huge poster of the
galaxy with, at its center, the endless well of Paradise. I often observed this,
the culmination of all our efforts. Everything started from there and everything
came back there. All energies, all the lights, all ideas, all souls. It was a
trash can and a matrix. The meaning of our lives.
Heaven.
Freddy was there ... And not only Freddy, our first Thanatonautes: Marcellin,
Hughes, Felix, Rajiv ... inmates of Fleury-Merogis galore ...
336
Sometimes at night I would sit in front of the receiver of the large antenna

188

that we had installed at the top of thanatodrome and I watched on the monitor
dead fly like so many pigeons clouds. Bon voyage, dear contemporaries.
A green dot symbolizes each deceased. Some darted faster than others. Their need
to leave this world was probably stronger. Very rarely, I watched a soul
returning to earth. Was he a survivor of medicine, an isolated thanatonaute, a
lover who would not leave her mother, a murdered who wanted revenge as a ghost,
a monk in meditation or an angel making discreet visit to the human who the
invoked?
Regarding Raoul, we thought it was wandering somewhere on this earth much
material in search of his mother in real flesh. In fact, it was not far.
Powerless to discover it, sorry to fight against us, he dragged from bar to bar
and claimed that alcohol absorption allow it if necessary to improve its flying
technique.
One day, sobered up, he realized he had just started with himself a great debate
on justice. He returned to thanatodrome, rang at my door, apologized for making
me trouble and solemnly promised never to try to reveal to me the second truth
that, luckily, I had not heard.
I thanked him without much conviction. Knowing that there was information that
could upset my existence at all and voluntarily remain in ignorance, this I did
not like that much.
In the evening, my mother and my brother made me adoptive visit. They were
perhaps foreigners, however I measured the importance they had taken in my life.
My parents had always treated me like one of their own, leaving reflected the
slightest clue. They pampered me. They kept the secret. They yelled at me and
gave me wanted to rebel against them like I was their real child. I could get
rid of my Oedipus complex with my father no wrong, I had unconsciously fall in
love with my execrable mother, I could get in my lamentable rivalry with
brother. For all that, many thanks.
True justice, perhaps that's it: being able to say thank you àceux who makes you
feel good and do not lick the hand of those who have hurt you. It looks simple
like that, but often finds himself stupidly to do the opposite and we do not
even know why.
337
I embraced them as never before I had not kissed them, saying that, whatever the
circumstances, I would never accept to speak there with my real parents, who had
dropped me like a pile of rags . I did not know the reasons (surely very good)
who had pushed them, I do not even want to see their faces. If they had left me,
I gave up. As for those who had adopted me, I adoptais.
I had only one true home: my mother and burdensome that idiot Conrad. The truth
of Raoul had made me understand a truth even more precious.
We do not necessarily choose your friends, but ... we can still choose his
family!
224-CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY
"Now if we preach that Christ rose from the dead, how do some among you can say
there is no resurrection of the dead? If there is no resurrection of the dead,
Christ either not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then our preaching is
empty, empty is also our faith [...]. If for this life only we put our hope in
Christ, we are the most pitiable of all men [...]. If the dead are not raised,
eat and drink for tomorrow we die. "
Second Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians I, 15.
Extralt thesis Death Unknown this, by Francis Razorbak.
225 - CONFERENCES
Taking advantage that, for now, the secret remained well guarded, we
multipliâmes trips to explore at best, and possibly to the end, the last lock of

189

Paradise.
Angels were accustomed to visits of our small group of Thanatonautes. They
called us "their great initiates small-time". Willingly or unwillingly, they
agreed to answer our questions as if these talks were entering an already wellknown procedure of them.
338
When one knows them a little, angels are proving extremely friendly and wise.
This is still super-bodhisattvas, the elite of Lamed Vav, saints of all.
Gradually better percions us the meaning of life, but we were left alone to
know. Lucinder thought one day that enough was enough. He was about to run for a
third presidential term. On all levels, political, economic, diplomatic, his
record was disastrous. He had more than an asset to throw in the electoral
battle: the thanatonautique. Speaking of angels and Paradise was safer evoke
recession indices, unemployment figures rise and horrible deficit of trade
balance completely demoralizing.
Lucinder so we counted on him to rebuild a winning image. After all, he was the
man who started the exploration campaign on the Continent Ultimate bold project
if it were. The public would surely learn more about what was going on after
death. And how best to achieve that by slipping into one ballot in the name of
the outgoing president?
Everything is paid: a vote equals a step closer to explaining your death. This
was in essence the election of our friend program.
For my part, I was not convinced that the time had come to reveal to people that
there was a past White Moch 6 countries, populated by angels, and where the dead
were accountable for all the good and all evil deeds committed during their
icibas pass. I was well placed to measure the ravages of truth.
And could we not learn there? Who had ordered the assassination of Kennedy,
engineered the death of Marilyn Monroe, armed hand of Ravaillac? Who was the
Iron Mask? Where was the hidden treasure of Blackbeard the pirate? Up there, if
we wished very hard, we had access to all the solutions, all the answers. Was it
really a good thing?
Moreover, when everyone would know that simply appeal wholeheartedly thrilled
that his wishes come true, what trouble ahead! Often go completely the desires
of some against others' wishes. Some covet power, others a legacy, some only
dream of peace and non carnage. How to simultaneously satisfy all Earthlings?
A world where all desires would be realized upon solicitation of the angels,
would not it a living hell? "Let us beware of
339
our desires, we might well be annoyed if they materialize, "said Freddy. I
remembered having wished the death of a geography teacher particularly
irascible. I remembered you wanted to have a harem of subservient women. I
remembered having wished dead. Fortunately, the angels had not heard me, like
they had not heard so many tyrants who want to become masters of the world!
- No, I asserted forcefully. You must not disclose the existence of angels. Men
are not yet ready for such an announcement.
- Come, come, 'said the President with a good smile. My dear Michael, it has
taught you that you were a foster child and you do not make a mountain!
Certainly. But a second truth, unknown to me that one, haunted me ... Not daring
to confess my obsession, I just walked
- Perhaps, but consider Raoul and his mother!
In a flick, he evacuated the problem.
- Razorbak needs rest. Razorbak drinking too much alcohol. I convinced him to
follow a detox. He promised to come and give us a hand for my presidential
campaign as soon as he would get better.
- But her mother, forced to hide constantly?
- He forgave him.
The news astounded me.
- How you managed to obtain his pardon?

190

The President rubbed his hands, delighted.
- These angels are certainly very practical. It is not I who convinced Raoul is
Stefania. The black angel Satan had caused all this damage, she got the
archangel Gabriel, his white alter ego, he repairs. You see, my dear Michael,
can be trusted to Paradise. The evil that it generates, it is able to turn it
into good.
What answer that? Besides, who was I to thwart the head of state? Raoul
definitely could raise objections but he was not there, and for good reason! As
for Stefania, Rose and Amanda, they saw no reason not to disclose all the
ultimate secret. So I submitted myself to the general will.
Thus we entered our time "show-biz". We entamâmes a series of conferences around
the world, telling all over our interviews with angels, archangels, seraphim,
jinn and even devils. Initially, we went there
340
together, Stefania, Amandine, Rose and me. But little by little, it turned out
that only Amandine was really good at this kind of exercise.
The lovely mute first nurse, then reserved, suddenly had a certain talent for
oratory. The quieter often prove the best speaker s soon as they are given the
chance.
Amandine knew how to communicate his passion for thanatonautique. She evoked awe
Paradise, where she went up increasingly often look for (so far unsuccessfully)
Freddy and chat with St. Peter. In addition, her recent widowhood gave him extra
credibility. A widow can not lie touching on a subject so close, especially when
her husband was the best choreographer of thanatonautiques takeoffs!
The Amandine conferences became real shows. It arose while black dressed in
white spotlights, while the choirs sang the opening of Carmina Burana. Angel
blond to raven body, it looked more and more to the fantasy of it I passed to
each of my alien incursions.
One evening as she was finishing his presentation, a reporter raised his hand.
- This "weighing of souls" seems incomprehensible, you really want to say that
up there, they count the points as much penalties and bonuses?
She took her time before answering.
- Yes. The existence, it is a bit like the baccalaureate. Redoubling until we
get the average.
There was a rumor in the audience.
- But then pursued the man, how is it of bonuses and penalties for the soul
would do away with the cycle of reincarnations?
Saint Peter had not been stingy with his keys. Amandine provides precise figures
- Six hundred points. According to the schedule imposed by the three
archangesjuges, you have six hundred points for not having to retake the exam of
life.
Hubbub in the room. Is life was only a vast classroom where all boiled down to
win the most good points as possible while avoiding his best bad grades and
pointed zeros?
This "academic" vision of destiny was enough to disappoint many. But she at
least had the merit of being consistent.
341
- A single positive act can bring six hundred points of a sudden, Amandine
clarified.
Relief whisper. So enough to behave once in his life to be saved! However, the
speaker already completed
But in the same way, a single evil act can ruin a whole life. You can get lost
or run away with blows of actions that seem insignificant at the time, told me
an angel. The weighing is very subtle and judges are engaged in lengthy
calculations. In fact, no one in ten thousand deceased seem to get six hundred
points to turn into pure spirit. Most are readjusted and thus reincarnated.
Other questions rang out.
- Is he also has pets up there?

191

- Yes, when they behaved well during their animal cycle, they are reincarnated
as humans. Humans are at the top of the ladder of reincarnation because they are
the only ones with an abstract consciousness.
- Does it mean that we were all animals before becoming human?
- Surely. The evolution goes mineral plant, àanimal of vegetable, animal-tohuman, human-to pure spirit. This is the meaning of life.
Amandine had to disclose all the secrets of the world and yet questions still
raining
- Is A regression possible?
- Obviously. If we too misbehaved during its existence, we fall back into a form
of previous life. In humans, it becomes animal. But these are very rare cases.
- So what happens to the people it bad but not bad enough to return to the
animal stage?
- They are reincarnated in human whose existence will be particularly unpleasant
and in which they will have to show their best after all sides. In fact, Hell is
here, on this earth. Those who behaved badly reborn in countries affected Ades
endemic wars or famines. They are poor, ill, disabled ... In these terrible
circumstances, they will have even more opportunities to redeem himself. They
can sacrifice themselves for others so much more radiant. Goodwill will be
easier to prove.
The journalist immediately raised his hand.
342
- Do you mean by this that those born in rich Western families are all people
who have had a good conduct in their previous life?
Amandine sighed.
- It would be too simple. You can be unhappy, horribly unfortunate even, in a
rich western family and you can be happy, very happy, in the warmth and
solidarity of a third world slum. After all, it is our so-called most advanced
countries with the highest suicide rate.
The audience walked, perplexed, to the exit.
226 -MYTHOLOGIE CHRISTIAN
"So goes there of the resurrection of the dead: it is sown in dishonor, it is
raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, it is sown a
physical body, it is raised in a spiritual body. "
First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians XV, 42-44.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
227 -NOMBRIL
Raoul had gone in search of his mother who, ignoring his turnaround, still
holed. He spoke less, but seemed still inhabited by rabies. Private anesthetic
effects of alcohol, he was more bitter each day. After so long trying to join
his father, he could no longer attend to his mother. After all, it was a common
psychoanalytic quest. Again the Oedipus complex was acting up. Except that Raoul
had everything reversed. He was in love with Dad and Mom wanted to kill.
Stefania was trying to comfort her best and had together long conversations.
With me Raoul was silent, as if ashamed of his past behavior.
Amandine was now face to star. She became our thanatonautesse No. 1. She came
and went between ButtesChaumont and Heaven where St. Peter, with whom she had
become closely linked, called, she claimed, "my little initiated."
343
Lucinder climbed in pre-election polls while Rose and I especially préoccupions
the complete geography of Paradise. What was there after the weigh zone of
souls? We had repeatedly approached, but we never were able to bypass the

192

mountain light to discover what was behind our silver cords proving too short.
And as more Rose was pregnant, neither of us had wanted to risk his life to find
out.
My wife astronomer continued to believe that after the black hole was its
opposite, a white fountain throwing souls to the way a flared off shotgun. The
dead were sucked one side then the other propelled to their reincarnation. While
waiting to go see, she was drawn more prosaically a study of gamma rays, charged
more energy than X or ultraviolet rays. She devised a new gamma ray detector
which further allowed us better observe from Earth, the surroundings of Paradise
and the center of our galaxy.
Finishing take my bath, I lingered one day to treat water that is evacuated by
gurgling in the bung. The whole secret of astronomy was there, in that vortex,
like a black hole where this waste water is rushing. A circle in the energetic
center. I thought of the old riddle of Raoul: how to draw a circle and its
circumference without lifting his pen?
The water was going down the drain. But where were evacuating our souls? In all,
never look the head, always focus on the center. Stefania asserted that the real
me is in the old corridor that connects us to our time mother. The navel. By
this we received food, blood and strength and then, at birth, the door had
closed. But according to Stefania, navel was none the less important. Our center
of gravity, so our real center.
In contact with all areas that had once nourished, it was enough to warm the
sickness so that radiates throughout the body.
With the navel of our stomach, we begin to live. In the navel of the galaxy, we
die.
I stared at the now empty bathtub and threw on a robe over my sweaty skin.
344
228-EGYPTIAN MYTHOLOGY
In ancient Egypt during the eighteenth dynasty of pharaohs and the treatment of
some notable deaths follows a ceremonial very precise and strict embalming. We
start by sleeping body on the back. The master of ceremonies is usually a priest
of Osiris, dressed as Horus. He is accompanied by four assistants who symbolize
the four cardinal points. They pluck the corpse and then incise the abdomen on
the left side up to the diaphragm. The priest of Osiris inserts his hand into
the wound and starts àvider noble organs rot likely to: liver, spleen, lungs,
intestine, stomach. Once cleaned, they reintegrate them after treated in
conservative herbal solutions. Aid coat the chest with tar to prevent the flesh
will crumble. Then they stuff the body with oil, fabric and myrrh to give the
form of a round stomach. Similarly to the skull. They put in the nostrils of the
deceased a rigid rod to pierce both his nasal cavities. The Embalmer can thus
penetrate a curved tool with which it will chop menu brains then expel it by
blowing into the other nostril. Once ejected brain, the master of ceremonies
will file tar Inside the skull. It evenly distributed over the entire inner
surface by gently rotating the head in all directions to make it slick well. The
body is then covered with saffron yellow linen bandages. On the face are placed
a pair of eyes wooden dummy and a funeral cartonnage mask painted with the image
of death. Face paint must be young and peaceful.
According to the papyrus No. 3 of Bulaq (Cairo).
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francia Razorbak.
229 -History ANIMALS
The Amandine conferences were increasingly well attended. In the shop of my
mother, his posters, where she posed in outfits always sexy but never naked,
were selling like hotcakes. Their phenomenal success greatly enriches the small
family business. But it was not the most important consequence benefits if

193

noticed Amandine.
345
At first, they had attracted only intellectuals hungry for originality and
curious, eager esotericism of all kinds. Word of mouth was then brought
scientists. Then a television channel had the idea to broadcast a show of our
thanatonautesse. Beset issues, its switchboard had not resisted. Suddenly,
people were interested in their karmas. They wanted to know everything: who they
were before their present existence, what would become then? Eternal questions:
Where am I? Who am I? Where am I going?
One night after a conference, while we were gathered at the Thai restaurant, the
conversation turned on the subject of animal reincarnations. Was it possible
that all the people around this table have once been shrew, frog or slug?
While providing us with rose scented aperitifs and shrimp croquettes, Lambert
came to mingle with our digressions. He confessed to rest sometimes standing on
one leg. The position gave him an incredible feeling of comfort. He deduced have
once been heron and showed us how, in fact, he kept with a single support
perfect balance.
Amandine "supposed" to have been rabbit. She also made her little demonstration.
She knew to move its ears rather dramatically. She articulated the front back
and could distinguish perfectly the muscle to work on the side of his cheeks.
His nose quivered like a truffle and sometimes she reminded us laugh more than
she loved carrots.
On reflection, it seemed to me to have memories of fox. Fad or illusion? I heard
inside me the feeling that we know when gallops, crawling through the grass. I
knew what it was like then deploy bend his spine with every stride in the
artfully balancing its long furry tail. I concentrated more and I remembered the
long winters, nestled snug in my fox terrier with my and my pups. There was no
better rest in the world.
In the spring I was enchanted me long runs in the forest, intoxicating me with
the odor of moss and thyme that had whipped my nose when I was galloping. How
could I know what a four-legged race? How could I know the feeling of warmth of
the burrow during the winter?
346
The more I thought, the more memories of my life were accurate fox. I did not
run fast enough to get to hunt effectively. I remembered painful encounters with
hedgehogs. The smell of the forest. When I was a fox, and breathing in the
direction of the wind, I could have a complete map of the surroundings. That I
remembered. How was that possible?
The others were surprised to exogenous memories.
The subject fascinated everyone in the restaurant. The conversation soon became
general. A big man with a long nose is attributed elephant souvenirs, a shy
little lady confessed former quail, an erased man remembered dinosaur
Tyrannosaurus rex of his life by exhibiting actually very sharp teeth. After the
animal lives, they came to life.
Strange detail: many illnesses were due to karma, logical explanations. Those
who had the delicate throat often were guillotined reincarnations of the French
Revolution. Asthmatics were former drowned. The priapic were former hanged.
Claustrophobic had been abandoned in oblivion. The hémorroïdiens had impaled.
Parkinson, electrocuted. Fragile liver were poisoned. The stomach ulcer had made
hara-kiri in their last life. The psoriasis had been burned. Migraineurs had
committed suicide with a bullet in the skull. Was a myopic mole.
Everyone remembered almost precisely wacky lives. In the restaurant, there was
obviously a lot of medieval knights former eight former pharaohs, former
priests, ex-prostitutes.
Each had memories of alien life. Most probably the scenes views ... on
television in Hollywood films. For, as I wanted to believe those who thought
they were former peasants, as he was required to report to those who took to
Indiana Jones, Barbarella, Tintin, Asterix or Hercule Poirot, that these

194

characters never existed . It was still a good time.
Lucinder joined us at the restaurant. He also seemed to him a good mood. He ate
with gusto noodles with basil, then we talked politics.
After an initial rise, the stagnant polls. Lucinder felt it was time to create
an event that definitely impress a still volatile public opinion. If Amanda
could tell a real weighing of souls rather than simply
347
bludgeon people philosophical and moralistic concepts, it would be much better,
he asserted. It was during this final dialogue prelude to reincarnation that
everything was playing. He had to know in detail what bonus and penalty system.
Thus was born the idea of Interview with a mortal.
Unable to ship up there ectoplasmic a camera to film a scene that we ourselves
had actually qu'entr'aperçue. We obviously could observe details and repeat the
sentences. But which of us had a powerful enough memory to store and retrieve
all telepathic dialogues between archangels Judges and soul in the process of
reincarnation?
- Maxime Villain! exclaimed Rose. The reporter ectoplasmic, the reporter of the
Petit Thanatonaute shown. He is a gifted memory. This is the man of the
situation.
- Perfect! exclaimed Lucinder. It is even capable of representing the scene
drawings. My constituents thus have pictures of Paradise without even leaving
their armchairs.
He already calculated the number of additional votes that testimony bring him!
I knew for myself that ectoplasm enjoy a perfect view as they look with their
hearts and not with their eyes. Blind Freddy had he not been the most excellent
of Thanatonautes? Yet every time I met Maxime Villain, I wondered how he was
doing up there without his thick glasses.
Small, short-sighted and chubby, with his goatee and his mocking air, Maxime
Villain irresistibly evoked Toulouse-Lautrec.
The next day, we come to Fimes thanatodrome.
- How lucky you are to have such a memory, Amandine smirked when he acceded to
our invitation. If I do not score instantly, I forget now.
Journalist stretched his thick lips in an apologetic smile.
- Me, my problem is precisely that) 'have too much memory, he said. I would
prefer to forget a little time to time.
As the young woman had a surprised facial expression, he explained
- As soon as information comes into my brain, it will never recover. I am
encumbered with useless knowledge. My culture is so huge that it becomes
cumbersome. Ten times I com348
begun to write a book to stop after a few pages as with my countless literary
references, I had the impression of committing plagiarism. To create a personal
work, it is important first to forget all others. I am incapable.
I, who had always envied his encyclopedic memory, I discovered that it was for
him a disability. It's true that sometimes it is so nice to forget ... If I
could only bury the bottom of some second meander the damn truth!
So, Lucinder teasingly, allowed himself to appear as an exceptional quality
sound huge "ability to forget." Thus he was free to take the measures proposed
by his predecessors and he had when he was stigmatized itself in opposition. He
willingly forgave those who had offended him, which had earned him a reputation
for magnanimity and had greatly contributed to its popularity.
Maxime poor! He knew not forget. Also it always remain a journalist and he never
accomplish its ambitions as a writer.
As much benefit for the time of its capabilities. We began to develop devices of
its mission. We set developed the following plan: Stefania, Pink, Amandine and
I'd diversion by talking with the angels while on his side, Maxime would climb
the highest possible light mountain in order to listen the final judgments.
No need to wait longer. Three days later, our group flew to an ectoplasmic story

195

even more exciting as the stories of the battles of Paradise that had earned
notoriety àVillain unique in its kind.
Maxime stored up all the dialogues in his brain. With the related drawings, they
were published in the Petit Thanatonaute illustrated and later in Interview with
a mortal, second book Amandine Ballus. The original manuscript, historical
document of value, is currently under glass in Death Museum of the Smithsonian
Institute in Washington.
230-MANUAL HISTORY
Les Thanatonautes have always shown the greatest respect for the angels. Anyway,
just see an angel, a real
349
angel to understand that we must respect it. Angels are perhaps what will be the
men of the year 100 000. They are a million times more sophisticated and more
subtle than us. They have a different perception of time. Humans are stuck
between a past which they have to live and a future that scares them. Angels,
they transcend present, past and future. They offer us a completely new concept,
that of "present-future". The angel always distinguished the consequences
Acourt, medium and long term of every action and he chose to act in the
"present-future" as we would serve us a dish in a buffet. In advance, if we
select the grated carrots, we know how they will taste in our mouth. Similarly,
the angel, every action performed, already knows the consequences.
History textbook, course élémentalre 2 year.
BRIEF BIOGRAPHY OF 231-MAXIME VILLAIN
When he was little, Maxime Villain was a normal child, with one difference: when
he spoke, no one listened. He began a sentence and, coincidentally, there was
always someone to stop immediately. A table at home, they cut him with a "pass
me the salt". In primary school, the teacher said: "Now to the next class." It
was enough that he opens his mouth to the attention of others to be attracted by
anything or anyone to fly.
Maxime was even more mortified that he, on his side, carefully listened to all
contact and could remain for hours without saying anything to store all
information transmitted to him.
Flattered by his attention, and he multiplied the friends who had sent him to
turn round their interest and thus their knowledge in areas as diverse as
hypnosis, first aid, Victorian literature, computers, Greco-Roman wrestling ,
astrophysics, the strategy of the Napoleonic wars, mathematics, twelve-tone
music and much more. While it was good to fill its reservoir of matter for
thinking.
However, Maxime did not always take stand with nothing to exchange. At first he
had tried his best to force listening. After all, he begged for a little
attention. But to
350
he barely began to construct an argument that his parents yawned and changed the
conversation or his teachers said absently: "Interesting but irrelevant." Same
with his friends.
Was it his voice, grave and sweet, which was overpowering? Bass sounds, acting
on the heart and chest, and lull asleep. Acute sounds, instead, excite and
retain because they speak directly to the brain. Maxime said a high-pitched
voice telling anything was more likely to be heard a deep voice stating exciting
things.
So he tried to change his own, with hardly get results. In spite, he became a
Trappist monk. Among these men with a vow of silence and with whom there was no
dialogue possible, he felt finally accepted and valued.

196

He was there all the time to think about his situation and eventually accept it
as is. He was born receiver. He would never transmitter. He left his monastery
in peace and continued to accumulate knowledge to listen to others. Of course,
there is still nothing restored his knowledge since he always interested person,
but he became so extensive human databank, infinitely expandable. With
everything he had earned knowledge that many would have estimated perfectly
useless, he would have won hands any game show to say basic questions of general
culture.
Maxime Villain never tired yet not learn at all. He discovered that journalism
would allow it to better satisfy his passion. He passed through all the topics:
various facts, science, gossip, politics, culture. When he wrote, he had not to
worry about his voice among the mass of subscribers to the newspaper, he would
find far less attentive reader.
For better understanding and attention of this legendary player, he also began
to draw. "Words are not always enough, he thought. A picture is often necessary
to complete them." He gave all his articles now accompanied by a drawing. He
thus became the main columnist of Petit Thanatonaute shown.
Initially, writing was for him only relief vector. He quickly realized that
rigorous structures were needed to construct a narrative. He was passionate
about writing since it's considered as an exact science. Maxime Villain began to
hope write text or whose engines are so powerful that the first word read, any
reader would be captivated, mesmerized at
351
to be unable to give up and forced to read it to the end.
That text, it would be his revenge on all those people who, ever, had listened.
Maxime said: "My code of values, I place high literature I know the ultimate
goal is not to make pretty phrases, or fine characters or even a nice plot The
ultimate goal of the literature.. is to make people dream away! "
Make people dream further ...
Still, despite all his ambitious projects, Maximus remained journalist without
ever managing to finish a single book. Perhaps he placed the bar too high.
232 JEWISH -MYTHOLOGIE
"When the time is right for a man to leave the world, this day is daunting. The
four cardinal points are charging, punishment come to it from all four sides at
once. The four elements (water, earth, fire, air ) competing in the human body,
each pulling his side. Juts then a messenger whose proclamation is heard in the
seventy worlds. If man turns worthy of this proclamation, it is greeted with joy
in all the worlds and death becomes a party which rejoice all worlds. But if it
is otherwise, if unworthy, woe to him! "
Zohar.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
233 -Sheet POLICE
Name: Villain
Name: Maxime
Brown Hair
Size: 1 m 62
Distinguishing features: None
Comment: A pioneer of thanatonautique
Weakness: insignificant Allure
352
234 - INTERVIEW WITH A LETHAL

197

Text Interview with a mortal, as it was reported and illustrated by journalist
Maxime Villain.
The scene is the ultimate confines of Paradise, at the foot of the mountain of
light where sit the great archangels, referees of our destinies. Actors: the
three archangels over Charles Donahue, quidam just died. The guardian angel of
Charles Donahue could not come, which also change in any way the meaning and
value of the delivered judgment.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Good morning, Mr. Donahue.
SOUL: Where am I?
The deceased looks around and the area of its mass ectoplasm where his left arm
was recently amputated. He lifts his head and looks Hill ultimate judgment and
three archangesjuges manipulating transparent strings, full of knots.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: You are in the souls Orientation Centre and we will
proceed to the weigh your past existence.
SOUL: A weighed?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: A judgment. Your life will be put into consideration so
that we can judge your behavior and decide whether it is appropriate or not to
end the cycle of your reincarnations on Earth.
SOUL: I was fine.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (examining documents): It is you who say it.
SOUL: I heard in the queue that I was entitled to a guardian angel to advocate.
It is not there?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: You actually have the right to the presence of your
guardian angel but also that of your personal demon. It turns out that both are
currently in full swing in the lower world. You know or you do not know what the
guardian angel is assigned you the day of your birth. Or, a person born on the
same day that you required the urgent dispatch and his guardian angel and his
demon. A painful case of unfair dismissal. These are exceptional circumstances,
but do not extend it. Do not worry: you will be judged fairly. The
353
consciences of your guardian angel and your demon hovering over the mountain and
we will hear them simultaneously.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Your case will be examined with the utmost objectivity.
You are in the place of justice among all. We already know all about you. We
know that intentions to the prelude to all your actions.
SOUL (vehemently): I have nothing to reproach myself. I was fine. I married. I
had three children. I left a beautiful legacy WADA family before dying. At the
moment, they must have a good surprise, if you ask me.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL (while Gabriel wields a transparent string full of
knots): It is not that "good behavior". You see these knots? All correspond to
an act of your life.
Everyone is buzzing quite similar bubble memories to those who welcome the dead,
past the first comatic wall.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: You were talking about your wife. I see here that you
often cry. You were wrong, is not it? With an idiot at that.
SOUL (fatalistic): Manners are free enough, these days ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (very dry): single Adultery. 60 penalty points. (He
studied other bubble memories.) You raised your children, too. But did you
really care of them? I see here that you always arrangiez to go on vacation at
the time of birth, then you prétextiez business trips to escape the night-time
crying, so that your wife is still always left alone at times when it had the
greatest need you.
SOUL: I was always overworked and for the welfare of my family that I échinais
me. In addition, every time I return, I covered my toys kids.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: You imagine that toys replace the presence of a father?
Sorry. Malus 100 points.
SOUL: What is this story points and penalties?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: To end its cycle of reincarnations and become wise, he
must have acquired a 600 points bonus during his last visit to Earth. For now,

198

you're a penalty of 160 points. Pursuing. (He runs his rope and stops on a
series of particularly white nodes.) You
354
is lock up your old parents in a third category of asylum where you're visiting
their barely once a year.
SOUL: They were senile. And then with my work, I was really overwhelmed ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: When they raised you, so also you were "senile", as you
say. Incontinent, at that. And squalling, messy, dirty, slimy, unable to keep up
correctly on both legs. Your parents still have the patience to bear your whims.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: And then, there is still good, your job! Let's talk
about your secretary!
SOUL (surprised): Oh, you're also aware of that?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Here, we know everything, we see everything, we count
everything. Your parents were desperate not to see you. You really miss them.
Moreover, in hospices, old people receive more visits, better nurses treat.
Those who are abandoned, they say, anyway, nobody wishes to them. Inevitably,
they neglect them.
SOUL: I sent them not even when evil gifts.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Always the same old story. They too were not asking for
gifts. They wanted to present. As your wife as your children.
SOUL: Are not you exaggerating a little? They were not so unhappy as that, to
the hospice. Every time I went to see them, they assured me that all was
well ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Because in addition they loved you and did not want to
feel guilty. Another 100-point penalty! Not brilliant stuff! It is already in 260.
SOUL: Wait. It's a little too easy. People are judge and condemn them. It is to
believe that you are biased and do consider that bad. I still accomplished good
deeds in this world.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: What do you think?
SOUL: I mounted a bottle factory! I did work for the unemployed, I fed families,
I produced objects that helped people live better. Ah ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Let's talk about your bottle factory! She has polluted
the entire region.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: And what working conditions làdedans! You had created a
climate of permanent conflict between your
355
your managers and workers. You stood against each other to break all.
SOUL: Divide and conquer is a law of modern management. You can not blame me for
having studied business!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: For the factory, malus: 60 points. Already - 320 below
the level of tolerable. We will now add the bulk "trifles".
SOUL: The trifles? What is more?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: In your whole life, you have committed, and I quote:
8,254 harmful lies to your surroundings; 567 single and 789 serious cowardice
cowardice; 45 small animals crushed beneath your tires. In addition, Mr. voted
anything in the elections, Mr. indulged in gambling with household goods, Mr.
rolled in a noisy car, sir ...
SOUL (consternation ectoplasm Donahue): You think I'm the perfect bastard, it
seems!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: I never said that. (He still consults its full cord of
nceuds which now escape bubble-memories like so many champagne bubbles in
suspension): You regularly give your blood to hospitals. Bonus
20 points. You saved a motorist on a highway when his car was about to catch
fire. Bonus: 50 points. You give your old clothes to Emmaus companions instead
of throwing them in the trash. Bonus: 10 points.
SOUL: And do not forget the circumstances of my death.

199

JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (still laying the cord): Yes, they deserve attention.
You hit a tree to avoid a cyclist tumbled while facing you two big trucks
seeking to double. Their drivers are also right behind you waiting their ...
The ectoplasm Donahue turns and discovers behind two dead impatient.
SOUL: Oh
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: For once, you had the good sense, I must admit. 10
bonus points, but you could get more if, in addition to cycling, you also spared
the plane.
356
SOUL (outraged): What!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Yes, it was a young plane tree
nothing better than to continue to grow and shade the road and you, you broke it
in half! Next time you're doing to prevent and trucks and cycling and the plane
tree to plant you simply in the ditch. Maybe so your car caught fire and you
would have perished charred. It is very well seen here, death by fire.
SOUL: Because it's a horrible way to die?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: More death is painful, the closer it is martyrdom.
Death by fire would have earned you a bonus of 100 points!
SOUL: What did you say your next time?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (very patient): You need 600 points to end the cycle of
reincarnation, we have made clear from the start of the weighing. Or, you
complete this existence with a total of - 230. Not terrible, all that.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Especially if it is found that Mr. is still at its 193rd
reincarnation in human form. We can only send you back in another body. Try to
do better than pathetic - 230, the next review.
SOUL (startled): Another body?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Another body, another existence. A life that you choose.
SOUL (more flabbergasted): Because we can choose life?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Of course, in life, we always get what we chose.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: And here we are at the service of souls. We are here to
help you improve. It is for your good, so you can amend you, we will
reincarnate.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: We will give you the opportunity to repair the mistakes
of your previous lives. Choose yourself your strengths and handicaps for
starting your new life. Let's see what we have in stock with - 230 points.
The three archangels call two seraphim who kept hovering over them during the
whole scene. They immediately bring their cords bubble-rich image information.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Here we have the fresh list of future parents making
love at this hour.
SOUL: I'm going to choose my parents?
3S7
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: How often will he repeat that one can choose his life?
But be careful especially not be wrong! So you prefer parents rather severe or
rather flexible parents?
SOUL (puzzled): Hmm ... What difference?
A seraph projects a telepathic image. A fat man and a large naked woman in bed,
looking for a position where neither one nor the other will stifle his partner's
weight. After trying in vain at her, she beneath, then the contrary, they fit on
the side like small spoons.
The phone rings but the woman motioned to the man not to respond. This one is

200

all red and sweaty. It ahanne loudly. The woman twists her hair and face.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Mr. and Mrs. Dehorgne, friendly couple. Gentile
protectors magnets. One flaw: their profession. They are in the restoration and
establishment uncrowded. At night, they will force you to finish all the
leftovers; their specialties is the Castelnaudary cassoulet and chocolate
profiteroles. Like them, you will quickly become obese. So they interest you,
the Dehorgne?
SOUL (looking with disgust the couple frolicking and uncomfortable): Obviously
not.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: All parents have their advantages and disadvantages.
With your rating, you can not afford to be picky.
New sending telepathic images.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: The Pollet family. The father runs a tobacco shop, a
heavy smoker, drinks too much. The woman is illiterate and subject like a dog.
In the evening, Mr. Pollet often returned late drunk and hit everyone, including
wife and children. With him, the blows rain down thick belt, I can assure you.
Specifically, said Pollet is currently grabbing the buttocks of his wife and
scratching until the blood. Far from complaining, it pushes an ecstatic moan.
SOUL: But they're sadomasochistic! I hate that. In the following, please!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (dubiously): With - 230 items ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: The Surnach of. Bon chic, bon genre. Youth, sports,
still down, parents of friends genre.
358
They have many friends, often come boxed, travel the world.
All behold two beautiful young people hugging happily under blankets.
SOUL (very interested): Finally, you offer me anything but monsters!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Not so simple. All their happiness, they let you do
whatever you want but they are so dynamic that alongside of them, you will
always look erased and timid.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: First you jalouserez them, then you will hate them. In
turn, they are so crazy about each other than they will pay you enough little
affection. You will be a sullen child and quickly soured. Them, even seventy
years they appear ageless. You soon twelve years, you'll already a little old.
As it is difficult to accept the idea that hates his own parents, you will want
to quickly all the earth.
SOUL: Okay, I understand. Who else?
ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL JUDGE: We have a duty to show you the good and the bad side of
things, even if your choice becomes more difficult.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Consider Gomelin. An elderly couple who already believed
not to have children. With new IVF techniques, this lady already menopause can
deliver. You will arrive in this family such an unexpected gift. They pamper you
at all costs. You will love and even love.
SOUL (increasingly distrustful): What's the catch, cett :. time? They make me
obese candy force? They beat me every bad grade because they want to be proud of
my grades?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Yes. They are old, okay, but very soft.
SOUL: Perfect for me, then.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: You think? You'll like them as you become unable to
leave the family nest. You will always remain at home, withdrawn, unable to open
up to others. Admire your mother so that no woman in the world will be
comparable to her eyes. No man will seem likely to match your father, so wise
and understanding.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: But they are old and will die soon, leaving you soft
abandoned orphan. You will end
359
like a baby bird fallen from the nest before they learn to fly. And live
permanently in the regret of their disappearance.
SOUL (sorry): Who else in store yet?

201

A couple embraces passionately on the carpet of a cozy living room.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: The Chirouble. They are perhaps beginning to embrace
but they divorced in a few days.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Parents separated. You will be entrusted aYour mother.
She already has a lover who hate you. They will lock you in a closet to make
love more quietly. She hit you every time you weep because she fear that her
lover leaves her because of you. Your father take you sometimes on weekends but
also will be more interested in his mistresses to you.
SOUL: Getting better ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: No, these parents have some advantages. As you grow so
angry that you will want revenge on life. You'll hate all women because they
will make you think of your mother. This indifference will make you irresistible
and will make you a great deceiver. You also will hate all men because of your
father and, suddenly, you will be thirsty for power to dominate them better. It
is with this kind of unhappy childhood that becomes dynamic businessman or
statesman to grasp.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: In addition, you will just discuss your youth awful for
everyone sympathizes and forgive your wickedness.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: And if you write your autobiography, it will sell like
hotcakes and producers will struggle the film rights. People love stories of
unhappy childhood.
The ectoplasm Donahue hesitated. He was a priori quite charming, this couple
seemed much fun on the carpet. He nevertheless continued.
SOUL: I did not want to be Cosette and Gavroche. Something else.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: - 230, sorry, that's all we have to offer. Large
restaurants, tobacconists drunkards, dynamic preppy, old parents divorced cakes
and scabby. Choose and fast, because you need to then decide your health
handicaps.
360
SOUL: But you ask me to choose between the plague and cholera! JUDGE-ARCHANGEL
RAPHAEL: You had to think about it before. You would have performed better with
your parents, your wife and children, with a highest score, it would surely have
offered you better. The dead before you did that - 20 points and just with this,
we could give it a nice family of wine merchants. Nice people that will give him
an excellent education and perhaps the chance to become wise enough not to have
to reincarnate.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: It still has the opportunity to be reborn in a third
world country. You will not eat your fill, but you will enjoy a warm
environment.
SOUL: As long as pain, painful life for hard life, I prefer not to change
country.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Well, without wanting to influence you, I advise you
divorced nasty. You will suffer more in this existence, you risk more to gain
points for your next life. You have to see the long term. An existence is
quickly passed.
Around, the seraphim project images of all offered couples.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: I think, too, is a good choice. It will allow you to
progress. It will be difficult at first, but adults bring you some compensation.
SOUL (addressing Gabriel): And you, what do you think?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: I would pick rather Pollet, with the tobacconist drunk
and violent. I am convinced that we must not hesitate to choose a really rotten
childhood. Then, things can only get better. Then come the enjoyable day your
father will dare hit you because you will become stronger than him, the more
enjoyable day when you leave the house, slamming the door, escaping their
tyranny ...
SOUL: But you accused me of neglecting my parents in my previous life!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Every life is different. There is no absolute rule. It
is normal to seek to evade àl'influence parents wicked. Even forgive them later,
which would be a few points of handy bonus!

202

The ectoplasm Charles Donahue thought long by carefully examining the
projections of each couple.
SOUL (sighing): Well, forward for divorced nasty.
361
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: I maintain that this is a good choice. In nine months,
if you wish, you will be reincarnated in the Chirouble family.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Now for health problems. They, too, you can choose.
With your - 230 points, you must take two from the following list: crippling
rheumatism, stomach ulcer, perpetual toothache, chronic facial neuralgia, nerve
of incessant attacks, myopia near blindness, deafness, exotropia, esotropia,
permanent bad breath, psoriasis, constipation, Alzheimer's disease, paralysis of
the left leg, stuttering, chronic bronchitis, asthma.
SOUL. Uh ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Hurry up, or I decide aYour instead. There are people
waiting behind you!
SOUL: So, at random: ulcer and asthma.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (noting): Not bad. Gentleman connoisseur.
SOUL: It is that, in my previous life, I have suffered from chronic bronchitis
and perpetual rage teeth. It was unbearable. However changing.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Just one more formality. You want to be reborn as a man
or woman?
SOUL: What difference?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Man, you are required to fulfill your military
obligations and your life is eighty years on average. Woman, you give birth in
pain and you live about ninety years.
SOUL: One minute, if I am reborn as a woman, I can no longer become the great
charismatic leader and seducer you promised me.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: That's a good a priori man. You are wrong, the future is
female tyrants. To "tyranes". Just reverse roles. All men will be at your feet
and nothing will stop you from exercising your powers of domination. Moreover,
customs continue to evolve. We see more and more women at the head of nations or
companies.
SOUL: A delivery, it must still be very bad, right?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: I recommend the epidural. And then, you know, the
female sexual orgasm is nine times àl'orgasme masculine. Only women know the
true pleasure.
362
SOUL: You are probably better informed than I on the subject. JUDGE-ARCHANGEL
MICHEL: Why do you believe it is born so many more girls than boys? People learn
before choosing.
SOUL: Okay for females, then.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Let us turn now to your overall mission. You will
probably remember you but your soul appeared there of that seven hundred
thousand years with task to accomplish a work that completely revolutionizes the
art of painting. But what do I see on your page? Just scribbles hardly promising
sidelines of your school notebooks. You have benefited from any of your previous
lives to complete your mission.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL (disappointed): And that's why humanity is lagging
behind in many areas ... It is enough that someone does not accomplish his
destiny on earth for an entire artistic or scientific field does not develop!
SOUL: With all my work there, I've never had a free minute for my hobbies.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL (dismayed): Are you kidding us? I note here that in your
previous lives, you have been mammoth hunter, driver of carts, chamberlain in a
castle, explorer in Africa, pearl diver, film actor and, with all that, you have
not found a short week to perform at least one picture?
SOUL: I'm afraid there have never thought of.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: It will have to now. All humanity awaits your pictorial
contribution. Because of your laziness, painting is always in search of a second

203

wind. Hundreds of artists and designers waiting for you to better express
themselves and enrich your message. Some die with nothing painted.
SOUL: I'm really sorry. I will strive to do my best this time. Still, painter is
a professional die-lafaim. It often takes fifties to be finally recognized.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (mocking): And then Mr. pressed, he has a train to
catch? You will have ninety years to think and buy brushes, it's not enough?
SOUL: In addition, as a woman, I will have even more trouble àm'imposer ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Difficulties increase your merits. If your work is also
shocking that we are
363
look, if you realize your Mona Lisa, I agree to grant you 700 bonus points to
your next visit. That allows you 100 points penalty! What lead a good life small
riot between two wires.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL
arrange the coup de Mozart.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: Good idea, stroke Mozart!
SOUL (interested): What is the scope of Mozart?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: You realize quickly your masterpiece, you are
moderately recognized, you earn just enough to survive and continue to deal in
large quantities but also great quality and then, presto! you die young. At
thirty-five years, as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. One can even go up to thirty-nine
if it suits you.
SOUL (interested): Sounds great. I accept gladly. Thank you.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Wait, we have not finished yet. It remains to choose
death.
SOUL: My death! But I'm dead!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: I'm talking about your impending death. We have to
decide everything in advance.
SOUL: You mean, the last time I stupidly opted for the plane?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Yes! You want what now? Another car accident, an
overdose of cocaine, assassinated by one of your fans or your spurned suitors?
We have all the possible deaths: the police blunder, the flower pot falling from
a balcony by accident, drowning, suicide. More death is painful, the bonus is
more important. With their 500 point bonus, many Cathars thrown into the fire
were able to end their cycle of reincarnations. The self-immolation was the
fashion at the time. But there are now more modern 300 bonus points for having
killed innocent convicted in an electric chair or a victim of a generalized
cancer.
SOUL: Never mind the supplements. I would die quickly, without noticing it, and
in my bed Falling asleep and waking up living death.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Sorry, ectoplasm Donahue, but with your note - 230
points, we can not offer you death as enjoyable. Your transition from life to
death can only be violent. Moreover, it will provide an additional piece of your
aura.
If Mr. pressed, it can be
364
Think of Van Gogh! Here was a man who knew how to paint well, well suffer and
die painfully. So he earned his 600 points and was able to end its cycle of
reincarnations. It has become a pure spirit. Take it for example.
SOUL (plaintively): But I do not want to suffer!
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Anyway, we're not on earth to have fun. In addition,
with parents you have given, your debut will not be pink!
SOUL: What wound! Well, I take suicide. But a suicide quick, fast and painless.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Do you throw out a window.
SOUL: Impossible. I've always been afraid of heights.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Slice up the veins in a warm water bath. But beware, if

204

you do not want to miss you, you have cut deep into your wrists. Otherwise, it
will not work. Be sure to sharpen your razor.
Disgusted pout of the ectoplasm Donahue.
SOUL: Well, going for suicide with a razor ...
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL (smoothing the knots of the cord)
So I summarizes. We are in agreement: you are reborn woman with a stomach ulcer
and asthma attacks. Your divorced parents beat you to a pulp. You hurry to paint
the damn table. You die, sliced veins in your bathtub. Otherwise, feel free to
improvise. Next?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL RAPHAEL: Not yet. It remains to prepare the MSDS.
SOUL: What is it again, right?
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Do not worry. This is to determine some of your
qualities. But then, you do not have a say, it is we who calculate.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: I lists
Physical strength: below the average.
Beauty: above average.
Intensity of the gaze: above average.
Tone of voice: medium level.
Charisma: very top level.
Ability to mind games: lower level.
Ability to lie: upper level.
Technical skills: the lower level.
SOUL: what does that mean?
365
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL: That Lady will struggle to pass his driving license or
that it will be unable to fix all alone her washing machine. That's it. SOUL:
Bof! As long as I am beautiful and intelligent, I always find someone to help
me. JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: I still Intelligence: average. Seductive ability:
upper level. Endurance: lower level. Obstinacy level. Culinary skills: lower
level. General irritability: upper level. SOUL: I will be irascible? JUDGEARCHANGEL GABRIEL: Pretty, yes. JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL (annoyed to be constantly
interrupted) Ability to play a musical instrument: the lower level. Ability to
shooting revolver higher level. Taste for sports activities: lower level. Wish
for children: medium level. SOUL: Oh, he is still good, free will: What do you
even tell me? If I'm good at crosswords? For a chosen reincarnation, there is
still too much predetermined and independent elements of my will. I protest.
JUDGE-ARCHANGEL MICHEL: You see, you are angry! Let's finish the fight Ability
to: higher level. Whining: upper level. Taste for adventure: the lower level.
Come to the next! SOUL: One more question. I will remember all this? JUDGEARCHANGEL MICHEL: Of course not. You will remember nothing, not even your visit
here. It would be too easy! JUDGE-ARCHANGEL GABRIEL
At times, though, it will seem to have premonitions, hunches. This is all you
will stay that conversation. A trust you to do so Avos intuitions. But enough
chatted. Rush to get off before your parents have finished making love if you
miss your train. Come on, hop!
Next customer!
366
235-CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY
"We are the brothers of angels. When we introduced into the heavenly court, what
rapture before the splendor of the angelic choirs. And for all eternity, what
joy to mingle with the myriad of Blessed Spirits! The angels are spirits
prominent among which our artists and geniuses are but pygmies. "
G. Canon Panneton.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.

205

236-MANUAL HISTORY
FULL TOWN MAP OF THE DEAD
1. Takeoff.
2. Termination of signs of life. Emission of radio frequency signal 86 kHz
approx.
3. Eat.
4. Output of the world.
5. Flight through space. Duration: about 18 minutes.
6. Appearance of a wide circle of light spinning said Ultimate Continent. Limbo.
Blue beach.
7. Berthing in the Territory 1.
TERRITORY 1
Zone: coma over 18 minutes.
Color: blue.
Sensations: attraction, water, space. Freshness and joy.
Attraction by a bright light.
Recommendation to continue: do not be afraid to take the first wall of death.
Ends Moch 1.
TERRITORY 2
Zone: coma over 21 minutes.
Color: black.
Sensations: Fear, repulsion, cold terror.
367
Nine cornices increasingly steep, confrontation with!'re Most painful memories.
Light always present but blurred by the memories.
Recommendations to continue: understand its past and be able to take every
action.
Moch 2 ends.
TERRITORY 3
Zone: coma over 24 minutes.
Red color.
Sensations: fun, light, heat and humidity.
Confrontation with the most perverse of his vices and wildest fantasies. Here
rise to the surface most repressed desires. Their face without getting carried
away. In case of carelessness, may remain stuck to the sticky wall.
Recommendation to proceed: accept her fantasies without bogging it.
Moch 3 ends.
TERRITORY 4
Zone: coma plus 27 minutes.
Orange color.
Sensations: fight against time, air currents, strong winds.
Vision of a dead queue extending to infinity, walking slowly àtravers immense,
cylindrical plain.
Confrontation with time. Learning patience with minutes turned into hours and
hours in a month. Possibility of meetings and discussions with famous dead.
Recommendations to continue: freedom from fear of losing time or the will to
win. Accepting paralysis. Act as if you were immortal.
Ends 4 Moch.
5 TERRITORY
Zone: coma plus 42 minutes.
Color: yellow.
Sensations: passion, strength, omnipotence. Solutions to all mysteries hitherto
incomprehensible. Discover the meaning of the chakras and the appearance of the

206

third eye for yogis. Discover the path of pure Taoist Tao. Resolution of the
secrets of the Kabbalah for
368
Jews. Apparitions of the Garden of Allah for Muslims and the Garden of Eden for
Christians.
Place of absolute knowledge. Everything has its purpose. Discover the meaning of
life, from the infinitely large to the infinitely small.
Recommendations to continue: Do not be intimidated by knowledge. Letting fill
knowledge unwittingly devour all as so many delicacies for the mind.
Moch 5 ends.
TERRITORY 6
Zone: coma more than 49 minutes.
Color: green.
Sensations: of great beauty, discovery of beautiful scenery, dream visions and
perfection, beautiful flowers, wonderful plants ending in multicolored stars.
Green country is that of absolute beauty.
But it is also the place of an unexpected event. The vision of absolute beauty
brings the negation of oneself. You feel ugly, useless, rude, unbalance.
It is no longer a humbling feeling, it is a self-negation of printing.
Recommendation to proceed: accept his own ugliness.
Ends 7 Moch.
PLANNING 7
Zone: coma over 51 minutes.
Color: white.
Place populated with angels and devils. In the center, along the river of the
dead. Basically, the bright mountain of Judgment. This completes the migration
of souls to new reincarnations. Three archangels will weigh the merits.
Recommendations to continue: be prepared to pay for his misdeeds. Spontaneously
claim a reincarnation to repair the damage and nuisance caused at previous
existences.
Ends with light mountain.
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
369
237 - APPREHENSION
Published by the modest Small illustrated Thanatonaute, the interview with
Charles Donahue however awarded a global impact. It was translated in all
languages and commented on by the most eminent psychologists, philosophers,
priests, psychoanalysts and politicians.
Our friend the President obviously was as talkative.
He mobilized all TV channels for a speech announcing entry into a messianic era.
He said that the thanatonautique open all doors closed so far. There would now
be a before and after the discovery of the Ultimate Continent. To listen, one
could guess that in fact he would have liked this new era is described as
lucindérienne. More Christian calendar with dating before or after Christ. We
were in the year 68 after the birth of Jean Lucinder.
If Lucinder not aroused the support of all his person, each nonetheless realized
that something fundamental had happened. A large door opened, letting the storm
sweep a room long closed.
What upset to learn that the death was a country, that country was populated by
angels, archangels that we are judged on our past lives ... The Interview with a
mortal had moreover taught us that we live in a moral world.
There were good and bad ways of behaving icibas. Humans were no longer on earth
schoolboys responsible for their lessons well, namely empathy, generosity,
elevation of consciousness.

207

It was so simple, so childish, so moral. Only catechism books of all kinds had
thought about it and, over the centuries, as many had ceased to believe. How
many clerics of all faiths had always drummed yet that the future belonged to
nice people!
It was already too late to intervene when I perceived the risk of such
disclosure. Now, everyone knew. It was important to wash his karma of all its
miasma, to avoid tainting the existence of any villainy. Live, suffer, die;
nothing mattered, everything was an episode until the climax of the pure spirit.
We méditâmes on it in our penthouse. Through the
370
windows, lit by small flames of candles, we saw the starlight.
Amandine the star had adopted priestess-like. She was clothed more than long
Chinese black robes with the collar and slit skirt length. She had taken off all
lights and replace them with candelabra. We bathed in an orange light.
The first, I broke the silence
- The time is critical. We are overwhelmed. We do not monitor anything. The
thanatonautique escapes us.
- Not surprisingly, it touched too many essential points, Amandine declaimed in
a voice actress. By discovering death, we have given a meaning to life.
Always milk soup, Stefania inveighed
- To Christopher Columbus, it's been the same. It may have discovered America
but missed his return. He imagined impress people with parrots and chocolate.
Mocked him. It deserves although not care about us!
Always Columbus ...
- Poor Columbus died in poverty and oblivion, Rose noticed. We, we're still not
there.
- But the worst is that its discovery has completely escaped him, still annoyed
the Italian. The proof is that if America is called like that, it's because of
Amerigo Vespucci, discoverer of the only officially recognized then by the
Spanish court. We too robs us of our work!
Protestor my agreement, I tapped his fist on the coffee table, missing reverse
Amandine cocktails. It was funny, but since the abandonment of Raoul, I felt
compelled to give rants in his place. As if, in any group, it necessarily had an
irascible character and blood!
- We must maintain control of the thanatonautique, I tempêtai. We have been
pioneers, control rightfully ours.
- My poor darling, since the publication of Interview with a mortal, we are
overwhelmed, Rose sighed.
- You heard what they say on the news? Stefania is excited. The number of crimes
and offenses fell sharply. There are more than fools who kill!
371
- What do we do? asked Amanda, practice.
- Nothing, Rose said. We will face a wave of widespread kindness. The world has
never known that. We'll see what comes of it.
In silence, sorry, we sirotâmes our not too sugary drinks and alcoholic enough.
Berk.
238 - INDIAN MYTHOLOGY AMAZON
Formerly, the Guarani Indians lived in heaven with the gods. Their occupation
was to keep the fire of the stars and the glow of the planets. One day, a young
clumsy warrior pierced the sky by shooting with his bow. The earth then appeared
to him with all its riches. The herds, game, beehives, fish, fruits seemed to
him so appetizing that he made this discovery by Aesir brothers. Taking
advantage of a moment of inattention of the gods, the Guarani launched a vine to
descend on earth. They arrived on the great Orinoco River, in the heart of the
forest. They feasted earth foods, but soon became suspicious animals scarce. The
rain flooded the fruit and they rotted. Shivering with fever, the Indians asked

208

to return among the gods. But it was too late. The sky had closed and the
Guarani were condemned to live in this difficult land they coveted.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
239-A GENTLE WORLD
The world became progressively nicer. No more soiling his karma by bad actions,
we risk ending up down-and-hunger in Africa, the homeless in New York or in
Paris Rmiste.
No science fiction book could not have imagined such a sweet reality. Everywhere
kindness gained ground, like a contagious disease.
Good works were choked with gifts. He had to queue for long hours to deposit the
check or best clothes. Overwhelmed hospitals opened waiting lists to meet the
countless potential blood donors.
372
Throughout the world, endemic conflicts went out of themselves, forcing arms
dealers delighted to close their penalty generator commerce. Everything, from
near or far, might be considered a bad action was now dedicated to general
contempt. Addicts dealers found themselves in failure. On request, bankers grant
loans at the lowest rates. They are more informed of their clients' repayment
capacity. A bankruptcy for their generosity would certainly promoted in the
afterlife.
The good souls flocked to the wooden bowls beggars. They are endowed machines
accept credit cards and checks not accepted upon presentation of identification.
No need to lock the doors, alarm systems obsolete. You could now leave wide open
the issues of apartments, cars, safes. Fly! No longer thought there.
More pettiness over
burglaries, more clashes, more fights, more violence. However, trade flourished.
Not wanting to sin by avarisme everyone multiplied the gifts to everyone. Once a
blind seemed eager to cross a street, dozens of arms were stretched and many
people stricken with blindness and found themselves unwittingly lost on opposite
sidewalks.
The Third World received considerable subsidies. If we were flunked the exam and
forced to reincarnate in a poor country, so make sure it would be enriched in
the meantime and that its next life would be more comfortable. He was in the
general interest that significantly reduces the number of poor households where
reborn.
People showed smiles more or less forced, avoiding upsetting their neighbors by
frowning, a grimace or a bad word.
Each had duly registered the rules: the cycle of reincarnations continued
indefinitely if it did not become good enough and wise enough to deserve to be
transformed into pure spirit. So all did their best.
Paint shops, music, pottery and even kitchen were full. Who knew if, like
ectoplasm Donahue, he was not carrying a hidden gift to be carried out faster?
Moreover, even the ugliest of the works found buyers. Of the
373
anxious patrons help the poor artists showed courageously in their living room.
Learn, grow, learn, improve. "Maintain the beauty of your soul. Grow it as a
garden," clamored the advertisements of correspondence schools.
The patrons were begging their employees to accept the increases they refused,
wanting instead to have free time to explore their talents. "Libraries, not
under" vindicated the unions. Volunteers masons built a vengeance.
Simultaneously, of course, the thanatonautique experienced a revival. Who did
not want to get up there find "his dear departed" or,
at least once to update on his karma?

209

240 - NAVAJO INDIAN MYTHOLOGY
American Indians, particularly the Navajos have a morbid fear of death. At the
point of being barely able to approach a corpse. Once a person is dead, they
quickly bury with great reluctance and all kinds of precautions to touch as
little as possible. The body is buried in a secret place, far away from the
village. It does not touch the death of the business, we do not approach his
tent, we consider that all that it is now dirty.
In Navajo mythology, there are two Twin Heroic who once stole weapons from the
sun to kill the monsters who wanted to kill the Navajos.
These monsters are Old Age, Dirt, Extreme Poverty and Hunger. The fact that
these monsters are still alive is a small kerfuffle Heroic twins. And we should
not pay attention.
Extract from the thesis that The Unknown Mors, by Francis Razorbak.
241-FM THE RESEARCH
Busy drinking, Raoul had not noticed any of these changes. His rehab had not
really been successful. He was still drinking, even if it was less accepting of
bartenders to serve him, spent an advanced state of drunkenness.
374
In thanatodrome, so there was always me and "my" three women: Rose, Stefania and
Amandine. During this period, our favorite pastime was to devour the births of
sections of newspapers in search of the reincarnation of Freddy. FM, FM,
We had unearthed FM babies! François Morlon, Fatima Maouich Frank Mignard
Félicitée Munin, Fernand Mélissier, Florent Mouchignard, Fabien Mercantovitch
Firmin Magloire, Florence Merwin ... Each time we took an appointment with the
happy parents but when showed the toddler, among ten other watches, pens and
medals, watch, pen and medal that belonged to Freddy, none had extended his
handcuffs to the familiar objects of our lost friend.
- It is too early, consoled me Rose. You remember the queue? Freddy has yet to
be caught in the traffic jam of the dead yellow territory. There was even there
Victor Hugo awaiting reincarnation, and if it is not already past with its
centuries ahead, while Freddy!
- The dead do not all go at the same speed. Talkative as he was, Victor Hugo
traînasse to argumentative. Other hurry. Looks like ectoplasm Donahue was eager
to reincarnate!
- It is recommended to wait and Freddy has always managed to be patient,
reminded me Rose.
In fact, I suspected it would be to hope that she would give birth the next
avatar of our choreographer rabbi. Mouftes After discussions, we also christened
advance our future newborn Frédéric Marcel Pinson. But between us, we already
called Freddy Junior.
I was present at the birth. It was beautiful! A kiss, a hug and nine months
later, so much love turned into 3.2 kilograms of a tender little pink ball,
hungry for affection. Never had I been so moved. Even the vision of the
continent of the dead was nothing compared to this miracle so simple and
billions of billions of times repeated: the blossoming of a life.
A few days earlier, we were both in our apartment thanatodrome the ButtesChaumont. Now we were there three. Is it magic more admirable? Next door, the
thanatonautique and karma were only trifles. Only had it. Our "junior Freddy."
375
242-SHEET POLICE
Note to the services concerned

210

243-Taoist Philosophy
"All life is like a dream. It is not right to grieve the death is only a change
of form. Why regretteraiton an inhabited house one day?"
Lao Tzu.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
tithes one year before submitting our Freddy junio
Believe that there is huge misunderstanding. Mistake to have left the
thanatonautique develop. Record currently over ten departures per day. Technical
increasingly safe. Cherubim, seraphim, angels and devils hampered in their work.
Response services concerned
Nexagérons nothing. The thanatonautique we all know, is part of a long
tradition. An ancient tradition. We always let in those who can enter. Nothing
even warrants a change in attitude.
244 - JUNIOR
We test attenr personal items of the late Freddy senior.
It was a Tibetan technique to recognize reincarnations. In Africa, there was a
similar custom among certain tribes. They cut a phalanx of death to locate the
fetus would be born deprived of that phalanx. Tibetan recognition ceremony
seemed more appropriate.
On all fours on the carpet, Rose, Amandine and I knelt beside him, the child
looked at these watches, pens and medals galore as so many interesting and
original rattles. Usually, we wanted instead of the way this kind of objects,
lest it the abyss, or worse, not swallowed.
Little is first interested in the watches in happily shook
376
few, managed to break into two (thus justifying all my previous fears about my
own property) and finally that lovingly captures that belonged to our beloved
rabbi.
Already we were ready to rush into the arms of each other. Freddy Meyer had
returned to earth in the guise of our son! Rose calmed the game.
- Do not wrap your belongings, whispered her while the boy continued to sinuer
between the forest of various utensils arranged on the carpet.
I jumped again when he proudly waved the pen Freddy. He had distinguished among
all and had seized on.
No doubt, at that moment I was convinced that we had found the right Freddy
Meyer. Unless it is he who has found us, up there, at the time of parental
choice. He was no fool, our wise. He knew that we would recognize! Anyway, I was
sure Freddy Meyer and Frederic Marcel Pinson had only one and even karma.
With all the knowledge that this kid was already in him, what we would win as
time!
- As soon as he is old enough, I will enroll in a course in dance and
choreography, announced Amandine, enthusiastic.
- It will also go in a yeshiva, I complétai. In addition, if we tell the life of
Freddy Freddy senior junior, this he will accomplish a great leap forward in the
cycle of reincarnation.
- The benefit of a sudden sixty years of experience. It will be the first human
to have the memories of two lives.
Rose did not conceal the broad ambitions which she kept for our child prodigy.
- At twenty, it will already be a great sage. Perhaps is this what happened to
Mozart? It was the reincarnation of another fantastic musician and his parents
immediately understood.

211

The one and the other, we multipliâmes, thrilled and delighted, proposals for
the future.
We portions more attention to toddler when Freddy junior net showered us by
releasing the black pen senior Freddy for a much more attractive fluorescent
orange pencil.
Breath, we followed him as he continued his travels. He sent the waltz and the
medal shows the deceased from Strasbourg to better seize a sea blue disposable
lighter
377
and a chocolate bar in his gilded paper. It was ruined. Suddenly, we
considérâmes our beloved son as a stranger. An extension of any quidam that we
had never even visited!
Rose tried to comfort us and to comfort herself by ensuring that, even so, it
had to be a good person for it to have réatterri in such a household as ours.
Still, it was not Freddy, and child suddenly seemed to us, you know? ... Abroad.
We were disappointed. We had given birth to a normal baby, karma coming from who
knew that. It was not the result of the existence of a holy man but simply a
man.
We now had the impression of having passed a small Korean or being misled on
merchandise.
What a disappointment! Little was still allowed to eat his chocolate bar. It
began in full figure and Rose almost débarbouilla disgust.
In bed at night, we had a domestic scene. My wife reproached me for having
baptized a little too lightly the child's first name Freddy. Now that we knew it
was not him, he would drag the name like the bullet of a life that was not hers!
With a bad faith that until then I was not customary, I retorted angrily that it
was her fault rested with. After all, it was her belly she who had made this
"thing". Not mine. With a little application, it would have been more successful
his baby! Furious, she sent the comforter and waltz replied that they had always
known that there was one chance in billions to make it work. One chance in
billions also we find the 'real', 'I désolai.
She too was baffled but it should not be forgetting that this child was ours,
from its genes and mine. Why would it not later someone good?
- It may be necessary to make blind he really the same chances and the same
talents than the other, I chuckled.
Mustard went up the nose of Rose. After all, it was his son that we speak and,
like any mother, she would defend tooth and nail. I had never seen her so angry.
Loose, she gave me all kinds of old grudges face. She reproached me for my lack
of initiative, my perpetual submission to Raoul, my lack
378
character, my inability to keep my mother and my brother to invade our apartment
for a yes for not they invited to dinner without warning, regardless of whether
she had had time to shop without never bring flowers, Scrooge!
I rispostai it was in any event not so fine cook it, she was so absorbed by his
work as an astronomer that was hardly her care of her dear Freddy Junior whereas
after all, she was the mother.
A sentence led to another without us having the desired pronounce her or me. In
the end, Rose pulled randomly clothes and fled to take refuge with her own
mother.
I found myself alone, like an idiot, with Freddy junior who, hearing that it was
crying, enclencha its own sirens. I vainly waved his favorite toys and finished
prevail in bed
My son asleep, I flopped into the living room and looked for some relief in
reading a scary book. Read some really heinous things into perspective your
small problems but now I could not forget my behavior absolutely petty visà
towards Rose and the horrors I had called him.

212

This was the moment that Raoul chooses to return unexpectedly to thanatodrome
and enter my apartment, very drunk.
He could hardly stand but still realized that I was totally shot. I told him the
scene with my wife. Raoul had an odd expression and with the assurance of a
drunkard, he approached me and said,
- Michael, the time has come to deliver you the second secret.
Ordinarily, I would have rushed to my ears or throw him a good punch to silence
him. But here I was beside myself. Forgetting all the promises made to my wife,
I pressed the contrary talk
- It has something to do with Rose?
- Uh, if you will, yes.
- Go ahead, talk.
He collapsed on the carpet now cleared of all relics of Freddy senior. I lay
face down beside him. Raoul laughed stupidly, drooling on my carpet. I held my
desire to shake it. It might vomit big red spot and Rose would never forgive me
the damage.
379
- So this second truth? I questioned nervously picking up my friend to ask him
in a chair.
He gasped
- It's ... report ... to love.
- A love! I surprised myself.
- Yeah. There's a woman who loves you and is waiting for you somewhere.
A few bafouillis and Raoul finally reeled a coherent narrative. In my previous
life I had known true love. The Very Great Love. Intense moments with a
wonderful woman. Alas, in our previous life, this woman was sterile and we could
not conceive a child. She felt a great sorrow and me too. One day, all to his
sentence, she did not notice while crossing an avenue and ran over by a car.
Angels thought it was a form of suicide. Anyway, I had suffered so much from the
loss I had died of sadness in the months that followed.
His drunkenness dissipating, my friend explained to me that when a couple had
experienced such an intense love without however giving birth, they had the
right to join in their next reincarnation to fill this gap.
So I had to find that woman because that was my true wife. Raoul knew almost
everything about her. Satan had told him much.
In this life, my wife's name was Nadine Kent. It was American but lived in
Paris. I had probably crossed many times but random streets, my mind busy with
all the thanatonautique, I had not recognized.
- Nadine Kent! I repeated, dreamily.
- Yes, that is the name that Satan told me.
- Satan is the angel of evil.
- But its action extends to lost souls, said Raoul, as tempting as his dark
interlocutor.
He had conducted its investigation. Nadine Kent was a sublime beauty, yet she
had known few men in her life. When asked why she was stubborn, so wonderful,
àvivre alone, she replied with a smile waiting for Prince Charming. She was now
aged twenty-nine years old and her parents feared she remains forever old
daughter.
- But Prince Charming ...
- It is you, guy ass, kind of viscous koala! I
380
request that such splendor has been able to find you, even in one of your past
lives!
A cough interrupted his laughter.
- Do you realize, my friend Michael! A fascinating goddess waiting for you since
birth. She only wants you, all the others seem insipid him. You've vein! Not
only will you ever known a great love but you have one other in reserve!
Love, love ... It's not that I did not like but now they pointed fingers at me

213

that I had to love in particular. Some Nadine Kent which I knew nothing and even
the existence until now.
I suddenly understood why,
I also had always felt so hard to seduce a woman then adjusting to a married
life. In fact, from the start, I was scheduled to make a child at that Nadine
Kent. Rose and Freddy Junior were a referral error ... At least that was what I
thought at that moment.
In my confusion, I take the phone book and looked Ala letter K. Kent Nadine, her
number was displayed there in black and white, in small letters. Without further
ado, I seized my handset.
245-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
"There are two diamond Paradise doors and, near them, seventy thousand angels
servants. When a righteous (pure man) happens, they take away from him the
shroud he was carrying in his grave and eight dress in clothes clouds of glory.
And on his head, they put two crowns, one with precious stones and pearls, the
other gold. And they put in his hand eight myrtle branches. And they do enter
into a place where flowing water streams from eight eight hundred species of
roses and myrtle. And every fair has for himself a canopy from which spring four
rivers, one of milk, the a wine, one of nectar and honey And one sixty angels
stand in front of each and just said to him. "Go and taste the honey with joy
because you you're busy reading the book. "N
Yalkut Genesis 2.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
381
246 -Nadine
An elderly female voice
- Hello?
Had I made up another number, in my haste?
- Could I speak to Nadine? I said in a confident tone wrong.
The hour was late. I perceived a reluctance on the phone. This was to be his
mother.
- Please! I implored.
- I'll get, agreed with distrust tip, hoarse voice.
Hold. Footsteps light. A delicate hand grabs the camera. A mouth approaches the
handset.
- Hello? Who wants me? asked a soft, familiar voice for at least three hundred
years of reincarnation.
No doubt. That was it.
- Hello!
Silence.
- It's me, I ânonnai.
At the other end, I perceived as a sob. A sob of joy. Together, in a broken
voice crying, we began to talk. We said foolish things. Confidences that two
people who have never met would never dare to say.
With thanatonautique, I had experienced difficult times, perilous, but never
anything so poignant, moving and terrible that this succession of confident and
tender phrases. And I knew she felt the same feeling.
- There are so long that I expect your call, Nadine said softly.
- I know, I sighed.
Another silence.
- Hello? I affolai me.
- No, I did not hang up. I'm here. For you, I will always
I was suffocating.

214

It was then that Freddy Junior chooses to arise, his face smeared with sleep. To
yelp moreover his first word
- Dad!
A small plump hand began to wipe my tears on my
382
stubble. I took my son in my arms and carried it to his room. As I carefully
tuck, I closed the door decorated with blue-white clouds painted by my wife. I
did not want to hear the "hello, hello" desperate that resounded in the handset.
This was it. I knew, this famous truth! Damn Satan! Why have I learned? I would
have paid dearly to ignore forever the existence here of Nadine Kent.
Raoul I curse, I cursed the angels in general and especially Satan, I curse the
thanatonautique.
I embraced my child which already eyelids closed over the eyes as blue as those
of his mother.
In the living room, Raoul laughed like hell. "Hullo! Hullo!" Cried again the
phone. I hurriedly grabbed.
I was exhausted.
I wanted to not be me. Not having a woman destined. I felt incapable of taking
an old contract signed in previous lives.
I wanted to rip the skin that covered my soul.
I labourai hand with my nails until they bled. Why was I forced a situation as
unmanageable? I could not escape anywhere, in any country, this situation would
pursue me everywhere.
Stop the world I want to get off.
Stop the world I want to get off.
I picked up and whispered with an uncontrollable anxiety
- Forget me, Nadine. Please, forget me for this life. Find yourself another man
and I beg you, Nadine, be happy!
Then, unceremoniously, I seized Raoul flanquai the collar and at the door.
247 - EGYPTIAN MYTHOLOGY
Formula to never die (pronounced twenty to eight times daily before going to
sleep)
"I am the soul of Re who came out of Nun, the soul of the god who created Hou.
My abomination is misconduct.
I have no regard for her. I believe in Maat and I saw her.
383
I Hou, who can not perish in mine Ame name.
I came to the existence of myself, with the Noun, in my own name Khepri in which
I come into existence every day.
I am the master of light and my abomination is to die. I am the Noun, those who
do evil can not harm me.
I am the eldest of primordial gods; my soul is the souls of the gods, eternity,
and my body is sustainability because my manifestations eternity as master for
years and regent of sustainability.
I erased my sins, I saw my father on the evening of the master, one whose body
is in Heliopolis,
I am responsible, as twilight, twilight of the inhabitants on the western hill,
that of the Ibis. "
Egyptian Book of the Dead.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Franeis Razorbak.
248 - ANOTHER COMPANY

215

The discovery of the seventh heaven every day brought new changes. The temples
were deserted. Why participate in religious ceremonies since the mystery of
death had vanished? Even the priests were losing faith. The main prelates had
beautiful proclaim, all religions, that had we found angels, we had not so far
found God, that was the end of devotion and mysticism.
Temples were turned into museums, others in theaters, others in private homes.
The ultimate was to build a swimming pool in a church.
The multicolored reflections of stained glass is reverberated in water and organ
music reverberated upon the dives.
However, as and when that religions périclitaient the thanatonautique developed.
Private thanatodromes hatched everywhere like mushrooms. Some were real tourist
offices: "Weekend in the afterlife Tour accelerated Spiritual Formation Boosters
Support provided by monk graduate thanatonautique Possible meeting with the
angels......"
Obviously, most of these advertisements were false. The excursions usually
stopped at the third or fourth zone.
384
We paid quite a lot to know as it was dangerous to venture further.
Raoul had perhaps given up on finding his mother but it was none the less bitter
and ethyl. After the coup of Nadine, I did not care and I did not want to take
care of him.
In thanatodrome, women took over. Amandine and Rose (with which I had quickly
reconciled) were in top form while Raoul and I were weary and disillusioned
figure warriors. They took pleasure in raising Freddy junior, became the mascot
of the place. It must be said that the boy was laughing, inquisitive and easy
àvivre. Maybe deep down children are great sages and only wear life makes
unreasonable adults?
If it was not the reincarnation of Freddy senior, junior Freddy was probably
that of a merry prankster rather sporty, given its propensity to run around
every corner.
Amandine overtook him for a hug. "Dad," "Mom," "pee," "poop" were the four words
he loved align successively. Later, he would need a good psychoanalysis to teach
him to separate these four concepts clearly.
With my son, life went on. Humanity evolved. My genes are perpetuated in the
nucleus of its cells.
- Still playing with this kid! Conrad sneered. It must be over the head of you,
Papa-bribe glue! Me, my kids, I record them peace.
- Papa-pee? Junior asked point blank.
My brother laughed and replied,
- No: papa-poo.
I suspected Conrad of being a bad teacher.
My brother had set up a company thanatonautique. He was building thanatodromes
anywhere in the world on demand. As advised promoter, he innovated by providing,
at the discretion of customers, its rooms off of a mythological or mystical
setting. With it, you could fly from a replica of the pyramid of Cheops or a
copy of the Sistine Chapel. The less fortunate, he proposed individual
thanatodromes, wooden huts similar to saunas but pledged all equipment necessary
for a successful launch. Optionally, for a flat fee of two hundred thousand
francs, it provided sound system and uniform thanatonaute identical to ours.
The affairs of my mother were also booming. She had
385
open a publishing house to publish the complete works of Amandine Ballus: The
Vademecum dying Some ideas for a weekend in Paradise, The Thanatonautique in ten
lessons, Asthma, heart and epilepsy: a few precautions before dying ...
All were bestsellers, yet the competition was tough. The practical manuals
thanatonautique all like récitstémoignages, were in vogue.
Fly was now within the reach of all. As for those who did not have the means to

216

buy all the bric-a-brac Conrad, they could always leave their bodies meditating!
249 INDIAN -Philosophy
"The state of mind at the time of death determines the form received
next life. But how could a righteous desire germinate in extremis in
one who, all his life devoted himself to evil ? Often times, however
repressed tendencies accumulated in previous lives change completely
moment of death the soul of a man who spent his whole life in error.

for the
the mind of
good or
at the
"

Ma Ananda Moy"i.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
250 - IS IT COMPLICATED
Life was only a passage. Willy-nilly, as and as the knowledge of Ultimate
Continent spread here, the idea made its way among human populations. There were
other lives before, there would be others after the soul survived the body. If
Heaven was not palpable, it does not have the least geographically accurate
place in the universe: a black hole in the center of our galaxy. Almost everyone
now knew that there was a continent "space" consisting of seven skies, and in
the last resided angels, able to solve all problems.
The first to suffer from these revelations was our president Lucinder.
It was just one month before the elections when one of his rivals,
386
one Richard Picpus, claimed to be mounted to Paradise and to have learned of an
angel that he was the reincarnation of Jules César.
- What angel? demanded to know Lucinder during a public debate.
- MUMIAH, the one who helps the success of our business, of course, replied the
other without dismantling.
Lucinder, for whom Jules César is a model and therefore knew her life by heart,
tried in vain to trap him. Before the astonished journalists, Picpus described
in detail the forum of ancient Rome and the health problems of the winner of
Vercingetorix. Even Lucinder was astounded.
Mythomanie or encyclopedic memory after Picpus-jules Caesar, bore candidates
Robert Mollin which ensured reincarnated Napoleon Bonaparte and Philippe Pilou
who swore to be Alexander the Great. But we knew the angels little talkative and
doubted the veracity of the assertions of this plethora of new contenders.
Lucinder could claim to be the first head of state to be deflowered Paradise,
Caesar, Napoleon and Alexander had not built less prestigious empires. Everyone
claimed not only able to give back to the France international exposure but also
to finally conquer the Ultimate Continent.
What a trap! Lucinder had found more "paradisant" than him. He immediately
brings us to seek together how to take it from there. If these pseudo-Caesar,
Napoleon and Alexander convainquaient other voters, battles and resume the
galaxy again become uncontrollable fast!
It was Rose who suggested to resort to historians. After all, these illustrious
men had not been exemplary lives! Ç'avaient been fornicators and tyrants, yes!
They had devastated entire continents and caused countless deaths. We
ressortimes old files. Julius Caesar and civil war spelled the end of the Roman
Republic, Napoleon was the gravedigger of the French Revolution and its
unnecessary conflict bloodied Europe, Alexander the Great had bad manners and
his famous empire lasted only time his short life ...
Bizarre characters brought us unexpected support. An avatar of Vercingetorix
reminded television how Caesar did not hesitate to starve the population during
the siege of Alesia. For an hour, he recounted the horrors of the Gallo-Roman
war.

217

387
Now, in this conflict, the Gallic victims were the ancestors of today's voters.
An unexpected reincarnation of Josephine spread in women's magazines gossip
about adultery sleeping around the Emperor. She stressed the massacres of the
Spanish war, the collapse of the Russian campaign, the error bleak plain of
Waterloo.
Alexander the Great fared better because there was that the Ancient specialists
familiar with the lurid details of his life. He still had some nice stories of
massacres and orgies.
Faced with this onslaught, Lucinder kept complete silence about his past lives.
Its this alone would plead in his favor, he said, and this alone would determine
his future. As the vast majority of voters had never approached angels near and
far and was quite unable to boast some illustrious existence, discretion is
approved. His attitude was all the more appreciated as everyone knew it was on
acts committed in this life that would be considered later. There was not much
to boast of being only Picpus after Caesar!
Still, Alexander the Great and his angel face pleased the crowds. He was proud,
imbued with himself, pretentious, whatever he pleased. A week before the
elections, polls gave him 34% of the vote, we were far behind with 24%. Julius
Caesar and Napoleon were bringing up the rear with 13 and 9% respectively.
- We need a miracle last minute! sighed the Lucinder candidate.
- I have an idea, murmured dreamily Amandine.
251-HINDU PHILOSOPHY
"If the prospect of these new beginnings continual product a certain weariness
among Hindu thinkers, if they aspire to put an end to this painful game deaths
and successive rebirths, the masses, instead, put up with it happily."
Alexandra David-Neel, India where I lived.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
388
252-ELECTION CONTINUED
Amandine had actually had an idea, and good. Almost on the eve of the poll,
Maxime Villain, the "reporter ectoplasmic", joined our pre-election team.
Lucinder had its "miracle".
Villain called a press conference during which he quietly announced that the
angels were in favor of Lucmder. Why? Just because they, and they alone, were
aware of all his lives, bringing them to trust him.
This deposit was decisive. Few were willing to risk making a bad point in voting
for a candidate deemed undesirable by Heaven. Only the sick and infirm will not
be surrendered to the polls. Lucinder was reelected with 73% of votes.
Congratulations, Maximus! With its renowned contacts with the angels and his
legendary honesty, Lucinder was still president! No one would ever be allowed to
doubt the words of Villain who had so faithfully recorded the interview with a
mortal.
Still, the dear man had blamed on a bad penalty. He outright lying. Never angels
had issued any opinion whatsoever on the ballot. Actually, they did not care,
our elections.
As a reward for his sin on earth, Maxime Villain thanatonautique received a
medal from the President.
- You would not be by chance reincarnation of Machiavelli? I inquired myself
laughing at the ceremony.
The little man smiled modestly.
- I wish you comparing me to Dante or Shakespeare.

218

- You lied.
- In-are you sure? I do not even know if it is possible to lie. The truth
changes according to time and space. Lucinder was elected? Well, is that up
there, they saw a good thing ow it.
And launch me, too, a wink.
389
253 -Sheet POLICE
Message to the relevant departments
We warned you. It's too late. The troubles begin.
Response services concerned
Situation still well in hand. Let us not underestimate.
254-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
"Before the silver wire does not let ..."
Ecclésiaste XII, 6.
Extract from the thesis that Death unknown by Francis Razorbak.
255-PAST elucidated
After the re-election of Lucinder, experimental thanatonautique became mass
thanatonautique. People went more often to the bottom of Paradise.
And it was not without consequence.
Anyone could claim to have met with an angel and bring up there a little scoopshaped thunder. Thus announced on the news that they had found traces of Adolf
Hitler. It would have been reincarnated as bonsai.
- In bonsai! Rose wondered. I thought that human ectoplasm could not return to a
plant form.
- From what St. Peter explained to me, it seems that in some cases it is
possible, says Amanda. It is generally reincarnates so improve but if, in a
human existence, it proves to be as stupid as an animal, we start at the animal
level. And if human, it was more bestial than the wildest animal, we return to
the plant and perhaps even as far away as mineral.
I was flabbergasted. Hitler living bonsai!
They found the bonsai at the address indicated by some indiscreet angel. The
avatar of the Führer belonged to a kid from a wealthy family. The kid could not
understand what the life of a bonsai was a punishment. He cared very much his
and was very fond.
I considered the thing and obviously jumped out at me. The life of a
390
bonsai is a constant torment. We put a plant in a pot too small for her and then
cut systematically all growths. It is the torture of a high plant at an art.
Without water, the members constantly intruded without place, without air,
without food, bonsai is only suffering.
Forced not to grow the shrub remains forever dwarf, while everything that lives
on this earth has the most basic rights that is the one to grow.
Certainly, under the pretext that they considered the prettiest and the Chinese
have long considered justified locking up their daughters' feet in narrow strips
to prevent them from growing. But in the case of bonsai, it was worse! It was
not just the feet. They cut his legs, upper limbs, and roots, legs. Everyday.
The most subtle punishment for heinous war criminal, it was good to reincarnate

219

the Japanese bonsai. I had chills remembering myself as I was unhappy when my
parents forced me to put on the clothes too small my brother Conrad, just to
save money.
Good idea, hat, archangels Judges! But there were men to believe themselves
smarter than them and finer vigilantes! A great blows of petitions, it demanded
the death sentence of bonsai. Finally, we dug the thing until liberating death
ensues, thus ending (to my great regret, incidentally) ASON eternal torment.
There followed a shower of "revelations" more or less verifiable. For my part, I
could not believe the angels so talkative with so many people, and I examined
them every time with great caution. According to some tourists from beyond,
Ravaillac was innocent of the murder of Henry IV. The Iron Mask was hidden sweat
of Louis XIV. Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat so brave in the rescue of
Hungarian Jews during the Nazi occupation, had been killed by the KGB, as the
martyrs of Red Poster resistant were denounced by their "friends" of the French
Communist Party . John Lennon himself had contacted her killer to be suicide.
The Chevalier d'Eon was a hermaphrodite. Nicolas Flamel had made his fortune by
robbing and murdering the citizens, he then explained his sudden wealth by the
alleged discovery of the secret of the transmutation of metals. Jack the Ripper
was good William Gull, physician to the royal family.
391
It was found that, overall, the bloodthirsty tyrants had received adequate
punishment. Stalin was reincarnated in laboratory mice, Mussolini was a circus
dog, Mao was to be lacquered duck, about the South American fascist generals
they were mostly reincarnated as we gave geese to make foie gras Christmas.
But apart from these "bad guys", others took advantage of bad celestial
revelations to lather.
True or false, the crafty étalèrent their previous lives to get some advantages
in this existence. A Parisian Asian grocer assured to be the reincarnation of
Modigliani and began a lawsuit to the heirs of his former art dealers so they
are returning him their capital gains considerable. A charming teacher televised
aerobics swore to be the reincarnation of Botticelli. She was able to start his
own through an auction of several of his paintings, collected in museums.
We no longer had disputes and repair requirements of all kinds! It was all of
human history, according to some, who asked to be revised, enlightened,
explained, demystified.
256 -MYTHOLOGIE CHRISTIAN
"There are natural necessity for the soul to be cleansed and healed. If it was
not in his earthly life, healing takes place in future and subsequent lives."
Saint Grégoire de Nysse.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
257 - SLIDE
Freddy Junior grew and our interest in thanatonautique was decreasing while that
of the public kept the contrary, to grow.
I devoted myself more and more in one universe of my home. The world opened up
and I shut. At that time of my life, I was convinced that the essential in life
was to get married, to have children and build a strong enough family unit for
this state lasts as long as possible. Family life
392
perpetuate healthy is to become atavistic and would avoid the appearance of
maladjusted children, tyrannical or apathetic.
I was happy. I loved Rose. The awakening of Freddy Junior fascinated me. I
initiai the love of books as I myself had been initiated by Raoul. Rose taught

220

him to observe the stars. Formerly, the stargazing relativized human problems.
Because of us, it had changed.
It seemed to me that by communicating to Freddy reading my craving, I offered
him the freedom to then educate itself. Every night, so I was telling my son
what seemed like the most interesting for a child of three years: legends,
tales, fables, short stories with beautiful scenery.
But beyond the walls of our cozy apartment, admittedly belatedly, the company
kept receiving the shock waves of thanatonautique movement that we pioneered.
Stefania returned a fairly edgy day. A stranger had approached her in the street
to offer him a large sum. Not to seduce her, but just like that, to do a good
deed! She had fought for refuse.
- I'm sick of all these sweet, all good, all those vapid.
- You prefer violence, perhaps? Rose asked. You raving!
Stefania was red with anger.
- No, I do not wander. Before, when someone showed nice, it was because he
wanted to. He had the choice between being nice or naughty and had freely chosen
kindness. Now, everyone is kind of pure superstition! They all fear of being
readjusted up there for their consideration. That sucks.
A beggar, dressed in rags clearly indicating its condition, then appeared at the
door he was no longer useful to close. He was quietly entered and headed
straight for our fridge. It is seized of a smoked salmon sandwich and a small
cold beer, he sat comfortably history to participate in our conversation.
Stefania bore down on him and before I could react, promptly snatched sandwich
cans and hands.
- You feel free, especially! she broke.
The man stared, amazed, the Italian out of her. Since all the doors were open,
like all his peers, he had
393
used to enter any apartment and use at will.
- But ... but ... you're crazy, 'he spluttered.
- Lout of Species, he was not taught you to knock before entering in people!
The tramp was indignant
- You dare refuse me alms!
- It's not that you refuse alms is that you not support empuantisses home with
your greasy dirt and your clothes.
The poor wretch took us to witness, Rose and me.
- It will not in her noggin, this woman! She does not realize ... If she refuses
me alms, it earned him a gaggle of bad karma points!
We looked anxiously Stefania.
- Nothing to shine! she ranted. Get out, vermin!
The man stared at her, mocking.
- Okay, I'm going. But after that, you will not be surprised to be reborn ...
(he looked for a moment worse) reborn cancerous.
Stefania brought his face close to hers, regardless of his foul breath.
- Can you repeat that?
He smiled mockingly, and reaffirmed forcefully
- You cancerous reborn.
I am not from the hand of the Italian but, on the table, glasses vibrated sounds
when the right pair of slaps.
The man was more surprised than angry. This woman had dared to engage in a
violent act of a beggar. He rubbed his sore cheeks.
- You hit me! he said, eyes wide.
- Yeah. And it is not worth throwing me yet I do not know what a curse. Cancer?
Very good. As much as I enjoy myself a little in this life, waiting. And you,
you have every interest to leave the area as quickly before I send you my foot
where I think.
- She hit me, she hit me, he sang almost.
He suddenly realized that this pair almost came to blows to elevate the rank of
martyr. Being a victim of a violent and aggressive shrew, this would surely earn
you lots of bonus points.

221

II through the door, beaming.
Stefania turned to us.
She ran a hand over his forehead.
394
- My word, we become all crazy! she said.
We did not know what to say. In fact, at that moment, Rose and I trembled for
our friend. Reborn she really cancerous?
- You should not have to risk hitting it. You never know ..., I began.
She rudely interrupted me.
- But, you do not understand that our world is more populous than larvae and
mops! More emotions, more fears, more conflict! There are more down here than
soft and superstitious beings. They are not good. They are selfish. They only
care about their karma. They seek to do good than to ensure a good status in
their next life. What are we bored!
I suddenly realized that I, too, basically, I had always been kind of
selfishness. By sloth also and not to complicate my life. Evil being forced to
care for others, to care about their defenses, imagining nasties. But be nice,
it helps not to touch or be touched by anyone. Kindness is a comfort just to be
quiet.
Stefania paced our living room like a caged lion.
- I'm sick of you. I'm sick of feeling good. I'm sick of this company since we
revealed to him what he should have stayed hidden. Hi, Les Thanatonautes! I am
going.
And she went away without further ado. She took her things and left our building
Buttes-Chaumont without a goodbye àRaoul that even drunk yet was still her
husband.
258-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
Are body and soul equal before the divine judgment?
The body could accuse the soul for sin because since she left, he is lying inert
at the bottom of the grave. What soul could argue that issued the sinful body,
she serenely glides through the air like a bird.
The soul and the body and could they escape divine judgment? We put the question
to a wise man. Like all wise, he replied with a parable, that of the king who
had chosen for his orchard keepers a blind and a blind cripple.
The cul-de-bowl was soon raving about the wonderful fruit. "Let me climb upon
your back to pick them, he proposed to
395
blind. Then we eat together. "The blind man proved unable to resist the
temptation, and the return of the king, there was nothing left of the fruit
orchard. At the monarch who was surprised, the blind man said he had seen
nothing The cul-de-bowl he would have been unable to climb a tree to seize any
fruit.
The king did not reflect long. He ordered the cul-de-bowl to mount the blind.
Together, they were beaten with sticks as if they were one.
Similarly, all the soul and the body appear. Also, together they will be judged.
Babylonian Talmud (Sanhedrin 9 a / b).
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
259-MANUAL HISTORY
Through thanatonautique, the world knew peace, prosperity and happiness. Mankind
had finally completed an old ambition of more than three million years since its
appearance on Earth. Until then, death was considered a punishment and
suffering. With the exploration of Ultimate Continent, fears had been defused.

222

Good behavior on Earth and, up there, waiting for the reward.
With Thanatonautes, together with wars, hatred and jealousy disappear from the
face of the planet, a new era was announced. American paleontologist Thunder
proposed deleting the term homo sapiens and replace it with a more modern homo
thanatonautis. Homo thanatonautis is a man who now control not only its
existence and death, but also all its previous lives and future.
What a leap forward for mankind!
History textbook, Basic Course 2 year.
-Visit 260 MUSEUM
Life went on, even without Stefania.
Rose and I decided to enjoy the Pentecost weekend to take junior Freddy
Washington to visit the famous Smithsonian Museum where relics were kept all of
our
396
adventure. The movement was worth it. In this imposing concrete structure, we
redécouvrîmes our first chair takeoff, we read with emotion the list of the
first volunteers sacrificed on the altar of thanatonautique we lingered in front
of our own reproductions, wax figures mimicking the daily activities of
Thanatonautes .
Personally, I found myself just like with that weird grin and the big syringe in
his hand. Amandine, so starlet, was much more successful, with its tight black
sheath.
In one corner of the carnal envelope Rajiv Bintou, the Indian thanatonaute who
had lingered in the world of pleasure, was still on a drip. If the urge took him
one day to come back, his body remained at its disposal, this transparent kept
in the freezer. Besides, a sign stated in any case that his umbilical cord was
still intact.
There was also a model of the bunker Bresson, with a note telling his sad
adventure. Puppets flew as different figures thanato-dance composed by Rabbi
Meyer for takeoffs group. A gigantic fresco of thirty meters long and ten wide
enough faithfully remembered the battle of Paradise. By pressing a button, it
even triggered the sound of fighting, "oh", the "take that, scoundrel," "dirty
dogs of infidels," the "careful, I die" and blows noises and a torn fabric of
his supposed reproduce the noise from the umbilical cords when they slam. In
fact, this scene was stupid because ectoplasm even Thanatonautes, produce no
noise and, even if they did, they do not transmit back into the intergalactic
void.
The Smithsonian Museum was immense. Everywhere around, judiciously placed
vending machines gave the visitors an impression of Paradise while allowing them
to gorging on popcorn, hot dogs and ice cold refreshment. The Americans always
do things well.
In the center of the main gallery, a sculpture showed Felix Kerboz shaking hands
across the centuries Columbus. Needless to say, the big smiling young man a
statue there had nothing to do with brute thicker than we had known.
I imagined pretty well in the future the new Greek profile on coins associated
with our motto: "All right, straight into the unknown!"
397
I preferred our old motto: "Together against the fools!" Still relevant.
Fun, recreating the interview ectoplasm Donahue. Three old wax controllers to
large white beards were perched on a promontory translucent Plexiglas lit by
neon lights (light mountain doomsday, no doubt) and their animated mouth, they
repeated endlessly: "Here will be weighed all good and bad deeds of your past
life. "
There was later a flight ectoplasmic detector (invention Rose, my wife), a large
satellite dish, a screen with fake green spots. To believe in the Buttes-

223

Chaumont!
To complete the exhibition, museum officials had devised a great relief model
intended to represent Paradise. A cardboard cone thirty meters high in its
flared part dragged a corridor that would eventually narrowing to a diameter of
two meters. It was enough to advance on a treadmill to enter and slide slowly
through the corridors of changing colors. Each crossing of a comatic wall was
symbolized by a thick plastic curtain with fringes could not see what was
behind.
Each crossed plastic Moch could hear a sucking sound and then found himself in
the dark territory, red, orange, etc. Around us, lit up at progressively slides
illustrating our stories of the continent from the dead. Somewhere, a voice off
commenting: "Behold here some examples of the demons believed see the first
Thanatonautes when they passed Moch 1." Satanic images remembered nothing our
friend the real Satan.
Regarding the pleasures area, the organizers did not want to shock the children.
Some characters were content with kisses on the mouth. For the territory of
patience, the treadmill slowed so suddenly that some believed Aune failure. In
the area of knowledge, the voice was passing information such theorem of
Pythagoras, + b2 = c2 aZ. A real little remedial courses for use by school
children. By way of ultimate beauty, butterflies few rickety side with dolphins
laughing.
Families photographed with a vengeance and esbaudissaient the slightest comment.
398
- If you are very good, one day you too will visit Paradise, ensured a dad to
her toddler.
I was careful not to say such things to Freddy Junior!
At the end of the treadmill, simply exit. After confinement for several hours in
the museum, the daylight was acting white territory! Thank you. No best reward
for the visitors a little weary. In a large room, rubbed shoulders cafeterias
where it was good to sit and rest a bit and even better stocked souvenir shops
than my mother, teeshirts, false thrones takeoff, models of demons, angels
models , books of angelic or demonic images, food trays for easy takeoffs.
Freddy junior feasted cotton candy and asked several keyrings with names of
angels still missing in his collection. For my part, I hesitated before
videotape CGI promising to make known "as a true" all the sensations of a
thanatonautique off.
I gave up. Finally, everything disgusted me a little unpacking. We abrégeâmes
our stay overseas.
261-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
"The birth of man on earth and his death will cause a movement of the spirit
which is removed from one location and moved to another. This is called
Gilgoulim, migration souls. "
Zohar.
Extract of the thesis Death Unknown this, by Francis Razorbak.
262 - KARMOGRAPHE
The thanatonautique really became a mass sport. It was crazy, the number of
people who sprang up there to have a foretaste of their final journey. Death,
after all, it's true, concerns everyone.
Given the congestion in space, died the day were obliged to clear somehow their
way between
399
"Tourists" to the umbilical cord intact, fond of new sensations.

224

The Japanese provided the bulk of the troops. For them, thanatonautique was a
way to find their ancestors to which they devote unwavering worship. No wonder
then that a Japanese company was the first to develop "ectoplasmic objects". Zen
meditators undertook to project them into Paradise by using the power of their
thought.
Big brands immediately imagined embarking on the ectoplasmic marketing. In 2068,
Thanatonautes deceased and had for the first time the attention attracted by a
poster on the road to reincarnation. An advertisement for Coma-Cola "With ComaCola, refresh your soul."
Insurance companies followed suit to the firm of Atlanta. "You are here? You
have committed an imprudence. Do not repeat. Upon your next reincarnation,
contact the General Insurance London. AGL, security in all existence!"
The advertisements will first limited themselves to the outer corolla but soon
was installed in front of and behind the first comatic wall.

committee

The
then?,

Some gifted psychics even managed to
Flashing make their advertising messages. Arriving in the
black hole of Paradise, we now had the impression of being
near a large supermarket. Despite what Raoul, the
Ultimate Continent was now sold to the merchants of the Temple.
The UN, however, imposed an international ethics
to stop the abuses. Prohibited advertising for a
drug reactivating memory ("With Memorix, you
would be remembered all your nonsense ") near the black area of
bad memories. No advertisements for inflatable dolls in
the red zone fantasies or for watches in the country of
patience nor for encyclopedias of knowledge in the area, nor
for an art gallery in absolute beauty. It required when
not even exaggerating!
In the stalls of booksellers, ad hoc books accumulated:
Death and formalities, Heaven, land of contrasts, Dying and

Manuel etiquette to use meetings with the other dead,
his ancestors and angels, reincarnation Road: Complete plan
Tips to avoid getting lost, Some examples of choreography
Specialized agencies were established. They appropriated without
ectoplasmic.
ask anyone anything surfaces and locations that we On land, everything became
simple and clear. Trade in March
had drawn on our maps. Monks are recyclèrent and,
concentrating in prayer, projected: precisely in the desired zone
the messages to be played on the Ultimate Continent.
The rates varied between areas. The sizes ranged from
1 m 2 to 10 m over 20. In heaven, there are no restrictions, while
depends on the energy of pronation support.
Customers were not lacking. Bulk after Coma-Cola and
AGL, the tour operators for trips ectoplasmic ("With Air
death, guaranteed return "), diapers (" At ease in
your future newborn skin with Impermeablex, layers
culottes that connect the former old incontinent future babies
they again become incontinent "), dairy products (" Thanks to
Transit yogurt, leave without burden to the natural paradise ") of
bedding ("Mattress Somnis, the secret of successful meditation"), the
take off my chair frè re Conrad ("Thrones Emperor of
catapults towards the beyond, all the dead remain in baba "), groups
rock ("Dead-Stroy music, the angels love it"),
and up alcohols ("Lucillius, fruity aperitif if we would like
hobnob with the Seraphim ").

225

400
Chait, people loved, poverty disappeared.
More religions. Over centuries-old hatred between peoples. The whole world was
stored under the banner of good deeds.
Where cynics had passed, the ironic, mocking? Even humor was no longer
appropriate. The humor is based on derision and trips to the mainland of the
dead had proved that nothing was ridiculous, that anything, any behavior, even
the most trivial, had its price, everything was observed and recorded in high
places.
Another problem: the total fatalism which seized the populations. "What good
undertake anything, people were saying, anyway my previous lives have already
defined my karma, I only live about an acquired several thousand years. Why
perform unnecessary effort, if my destiny is already written up there in Heaven?
"So, laziness won humanity together kindness. And why go to the trouble when you
could just go into a shop or particular to use at leisure?
Without material motives, what could motivate people to engage in business or to
imagine new projects?
401
I had always been beset by doubt as to the revelations about the Ultimate
Continent. My discomfort was increased even more when one day I witnessed a
strange scene. A child crossing the street arises when a sports car. At the rate
he was driving, the driver could not brake in time. Thinking of my first
accident, I rushed: "Attention!" The kid stopped, looked at me, looked the
fireball approaching, and quietly enunciated
- Bah! If that's my destiny, nothing can stop it.
And he stood there, arms dangling, waiting to be crushed without realizing that
my warning was also part of his destiny! So I jumped and ran off just in time.
- Small moron, you almost die stupidly!
He looked at me smugly.
- Not at all, since I was destined to be saved by you. Today, in any case ...
He returned in frolicking as if he wanted to be killed later, just to play me a
trick!
263 -Sheet POLICE
Message
Stop it
already
foolish

to the relevant departments
right now. The thanatonautique presents enormous dangers. Humans are
in place advertisements on the path of reincarnation. Multiplication
testimony on Paradise. Urge you to intervene.

Response services concerned
Yes. The situation takes an unexpected turn. We will seriously reflect.
264 - Apathy
Was it really possible that our whole adventure was used simply as this: make
humanity completely listless, fatalistic and unmotivated?
In this case, I had accomplished a great sin and I would need a quantity of
reincarnations to repair this fatal error. I could not go to step over street
people lying quietly
402
ment to wait for their present existence flows. It was even fatalism was the
renunciation of life!
Remembering the indifferent kid at all, I felt chills.
In thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont, the atmosphere was hardly more encouraging.
Rose, Freddy Junior and I increasingly refermions on our family unit while
Amandine continued his lecture tours.

226

As for Raoul, with the loss of Stefania, his wife, succeeding àcelle his
parents, he had found another good reason to drink. He seemed to look for in
alcohol as a third world, a world beyond life and death. Perhaps after all the
alcohol is after all quests. In this case, as have angry with Raoul early enough
not to let myself be drawn on this slope.
One evening I sat listening to jazz in the penthouse. I particularly liked a
plaintive and sad saxophone solo, the kind of music that no longer listening.
Returning from one of his shows, Amandine joined me. I looked away. Dismissing a
green plant, she sank into a wicker chair near me.
- You are tired? me she asked.
- No. I have the disease of emotional.
- The states of mind? Who does not?
Lighting a cigarette with the biddies Raoul always left hanging packets
everywhere, she added
- You remember what was said Freddy? "Wise men seek the truth, fools have
already found." And now the whole world has found its truth.
- So the world is stupid.
- Yes, but it's our fault.
I was silent, full of remorse. I thought back to that day I asked my mother what
the word meant "death." I could see the icy hand of my great-grandmother for
Aglaé out of bed. I also saw again the stunning image, engraved forever in my
mind, the three archangels light gathered up there to judge us.
In fact they are not benevolent. They are terrifying. Despite their smile. I
began to understand Stefania. The imposed goodness is as sickening as soup mashmellows with honey and pomegranate syrup.
Rose appeared in the penthouse clapping.
403
- If you are hungry, hurry down. The meal is ready and junior already devouring
everything. He soon left but crumbs.
265 - TEACHING YOGI
It is five observances to remain solid in his life
- The health. The body needs to stay healthy if we want to keep a clear
conscience. It must be clean, never fill his stomach satiety.
- Contentment. Appreciate what we have.
- Perseverance. Do not get overwhelmed by the smaller emotions: fear of the
unexpected, fear of contradiction, abandon the pleasure taken quickly.
- Study. Advancing towards knowledge by reading the scriptures and meditation.
- The offering to God. We do not live for himself but for something in us that
is beyond us. Above all, stay humble.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
266 - SETTING ACCOUNT
We already knew, from Interview with a mortal, six hundred dots were needed to
end the cycle of reincarnation and become a pure spirit. A new conversation with
Peter Amandine provides more specific keys. She told us the official scale.
MALUS
Lying: de 10 Gossip: de 10 Humiliation: -100 to Duty to rescue: -100 to Abandonment of infants
Parent abandonment
On animal cruelty act
On human cruelty act

227

404
60 points 70 points 400 points
560 points - 100 - -100 to 820 points - 910 points from -100 to -1370 points 500 to -1450 Points
Crime causing the death of another: from - 500 to -1510 Points
Subsequent offenses penalty multiplied by 1.5
(The number of points varies subtracted as appropriate, given the will to harm,
took pleasure in doing wrong, irresponsibility, selfishness that motivated acts
and non-acts.)
BONUS
Don interested: + 10 to + 50 points
Sincere gift: + 10 to + 90 points
Joy contribution to the environment: from + 10 to + 100 points
Assistance animals in danger of + 50 to + 120 points
A person in danger assistance: +100 to + 270 points
Production of a work of art: from + 100 + 410 Points
Original idea for progress: +100 to + 450 points
Self-sacrifice for the benefit of others: +100 to + 620 points
Good child rearing: from + 150 + 840 points
Multiplier: bonus multiplied by 1.2
So precisely made them more cautious people. Rather than risk committing a sin,
some preferred to kill himself immediately to reset the counters to zero, as
saying During the age. The phrase was also not a metaphor. A Japanese firm had
actually put on the market a counter good and bad actions. The karmographe. The
thing was a kind of small shows in LCD and keypad. People were carrying their
right wrist, left remaining reserved to the knowledge of the hour.
It was enough to note every night before bed, acts committed during the day to
find out exactly where we were with his karma. Not enough good points and a
horse was part of the karmographe screen. First sign of degeneration karmic
ladder, which went down to a dog, a rabbit, a snail, an amoeba. The more severe
cases were represented by a parsley rod or a fungus.
With karmographe you could die easy knowing exactly where we were in the scale,
without fear to face the judgment of the archangels. Obviously, the transaction
count and account required very frank with yourself.
In thanatodrome, we played with the unit. Rose noticed
40s
it had a 400 points bonus. I was more humbly somewhere between + 0 and +5
points. I had not made too many nasties in my life but I had not been a saint
either. Finally, Raoul was right: I was not a hero, I was a neutral type. Even
in my karma I was using.
Junior Freddy was meanwhile fascinated by his machine. Its pristine karmographe
kindly announced +25 points. The kid did not become less obsessive. No sooner
had he pulled the ponytail of a comrade of the square he consulted his
karmographe immediately whether it was serious.
The device was successfully replaced confession.
267 - GAME OFF
Conrad could not obtain reproduction rights karmographe.
The Japanese had watched the grain. Their patent was protected. My brother was
so resolutely turned towards another business: the pills "offside", namely
"special painless suicide" pills. "Better a new life a failed existence" was his
slogan. It was simple and it was telling what it meant.
Conrad, who had always been so skeptical toward thanatonautique, was now the

228

first to encourage people to take the plunge, business first!
Ironically, he counted among his first customers quickly his own son, my nephew
Gustave, desperate to have failed math composition. As a farewell letter, the
teenager had scribbled: "You worry a little quickly turn the country of the dead
and come back in another skin.."
His parents were convinced that he was probably right, but they do not ignore
least where the kid was going to reincarnate. "So much effort and carefully
planned foolishly wasted education a failing grade in math, there are enough
hair pulling!" Lamented Conrad who wondered whether he should cry or not the
death of his own son.
Rose and I were inquiétâmes. And if Freddy Junior was tempted too? An annoyance
is so fast arrival today. We know the beautiful Paradise, not wishing provided
406
that our child will leave too soon, allowing himself to slam his own umbilical
cord, at that.
To better deter escape the
this fashion that was spreading in schools and colleges, we replaceable fresh
cyanide pills "offside" that he had bought with his pocket money by harmless
icing sugar candy. And he does not give in to a sudden urge to jump into the
void, we did install screens aAll windows.
Rose did his best to comfort him in all circumstances. If he came with a book
filled poor grades, we offered him gifts to comfort him. We never grondions, we
were covering the affection, we continually assurions our support.
It was essential that our son loves his life as to persuade himself that he
never would find as owls parents in another incarnation.
But all the parents were not as effective as we. The child suicides were
increasing, as are those of adults, too.
Discontent, dissatisfaction, and presto! More sensitive walked with a
permanently implanted cyanide capsule in a hollow tooth and at the slightest
concern, they put an end to a failed judged existence. Life is a game, not to
participate, it was enough to tell thumb and put themselves "out of play" with
Ala pill free sale by my brother Conrad.
Result: we saw practically more old in the streets (the first ride, and forward
to a new life before experiencing the irreparable ravages of time), not more
people anxious or too sensitive. There were only immature beings obsessed with
the idea of doing good, laziness or superstition.
There was a real social problem. The leaders of men and creative are mostly
people who have had a difficult childhood and came out to the wrist strength by
forging hardened steel characters to better survive. But now that suicide
promised a return of zero meters at the slightest annoyance, future elites
disappeared before they had time to age.
Lucinder and his government understood the problem. In the administration, they
rubbed more than soft and spoiled, unable to take any clear decision as they
feared for
407
injury to one or the other. It was important to act quickly so that the most
intelligent and sensitive young people continue to commit suicide.
The dead become commonplace, it was also important to promote life here and now,
and not elsewhere and no one knew what future. The thing was not obvious. Nobody
was holding so much life to the point of fighting for it, or bite the bullet
when adversity. Worse, in which everyone hoped he would be reincarnated, much
like playing roulette or the lottery. This should not be the correct numbers
missing up there!
Thus was born the ANPV, the National Agency for the promotion of life. Lucinder
began to contribute the best that they invent advertising slogans, ideas,
concepts so that people attach to their lives rather than go to his heart's

229

content.
Who would have thought that before the 2000s? It would surely be laughing at the
idea that he would one day advertise for people to appreciate that there is more
elemental, more natural and simpler world: life.
268 - ADVERTISING
Life, a very emotional moment. Suzanne M., twenty, a student, testifies
"At first, I believe that life I did not like. Even I thought it was cheesy. My
parents étaients alive, my uncle, my grandparents and all the failures of the
family living étaients, and I wondered how they were managing to stay there to
bear to grow old and rot on foot as rags. What fools!
Yeah, life, I thought it was zero. I even tried to run away with drugs and
alcohol. But the drug made me sick and alcohol too. So I wanted to get out of
life. And then I had an idea. Before you go, why not go around the world? There,
I realized as life is great. Live plants, live animals, even rocks live. So I
thought: why not me?
Now I do not regret my choice and when I see all these young people who
hesitate, I say: go, guys, do you also round the world. You see, life is
something that will stay in fashion for a long time! "
This is a message of ANPV, the National Agency for the promotion of life.
408
269 -Sheet POLICE
Message to the relevant departments
It's getting crazy! If you are strong, do not let go of pride. Do not refuse to
recognize your mistakes. Your laxity is detrimental. Very damaging. To all.
Response services concerned
The fear blind you. Some quiet, please. And especially not panic. Always make
sure the grain.
270 - JAPANESE MYTHOLOGY
"We are but grains of sand but we are together.
We are like grains of sand on the beach, but without the sand beach would not
exist. "
Language poem Yamato (former Japanese).
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
271-SUICIDE OF ANY ERROR
The National Agency for the promotion of life doing his best but received only
paltry results. It was a tragic event, the Lambert case, to end suddenly
suicidal move.
This happened on a Sunday, our thanatodrome of ButtesChaumont. Sometimes we
allow our friends to use our takeoff thrones. Mr. Lambert, the patron of our
favorite Thai restaurant, had just asked us to try one. We had no reason to
oppose it all the more so as Mr. Lambert was sort of the leader of our personal
canteen, we wanted to maintain the best relations with him.
He sat down. We réglâmes our devices. He counted "six, five, four, three, two,
one, off" and pressed the bulb in the rules.
Nothing unusual so far. The bizarre happened to return. When Mr. Lambert opened
his eyes, I felt to be back

230

409
opposite another Bresson jeans. He was feverish, nervous, even his face looked
more like that of our placid Thai restaurateur. We had before us a man of fixed
and hard look. Another man. Maybe a Mr Hyde would have always concealed until
Dr. Jekyll-Lambert?
- You feel good, Mr. Lambert? I asked.
- Ououi Oooh! To go in there. It's going very well. I never went as well.
- You visited the Continent Ultimate? inquired Amandine.
- Ououi Oooh! To visit, I visited. This really is a place very, very
interesting.
His voice was that of the former Lambert, her features too, yet I could have
sworn we had more to deal with the same person.
Subsequently, it turned sardonic, even with a je ne sais quoi perverse in the
apple. He had forgotten all about the kitchen and to his beloved recipe noodles
with basil. From the kitchen, he did not care for that matter now. He suddenly
put on sale its restaurant. What once clients as pampered go to be fed when they
pleased! He washed his hands. He left the city and we never saw him again.
This story disturbed me a lot. I spoke with other colleagues thanatodromes. They
assured me have already encountered similar cases. Like me, they had considered
a syndrome of Dr. J ekyll. The name remained.
We decided a video conference to discuss the issue. Mr Rajawa, head of Indian
thanatodrome, had an explanation to offer. A mystical explanation, but still an
explanation.
According to him, these were the suicides that were at the origin of the
phenomenon. When someone deliberately kill until you have finished with the life
time allotted to him during his last judgment, its ectoplasm becomes a wandering
soul. She stands there, hovering above the ground, in search of a body where
rematerialise to live what remained of his life. However, it is very difficult
to find vacant body and many committed suicide and wander for millennia.
These wandering souls, the living have often described as "ghosts". Because they
are miserable and desolate, they play àeffrayer humans to ensure they still have
some power. They frighten the fearful and naive typing against the walls at
night, making lift the floors vibrate or chandeliers.
410
At worst, they can cause unexpected rains and storms, but that is their only
strength. Their actions are ridiculous and should arouse pity rather than fear.
- This is what we call evil spirits, signaled the director of thanatodrome
Dakar.
- And we blolos, blolos bians for men, for women blolos blas, clarified the
responsibility of Abidjan.
- Perhaps, but with this new suicide mode, the air must be saturated with ghosts
looking for a physical body, sighed his colleague in Los Angeles.
Mr Rajawa continued his explanations
- When living meditate or he engages in thanatonautique he abandoned a time his
physical body. Just wandering soul that passes by so she rushes.
We stayed there between us all bec-looking. What risks do we take so all during
our many trips! And, even worse, because of all the "tourists" who, thanks to
us, left in the afterlife, ghosts heaps now had a lot of nice body to put on.
What a paradox! These suicides who were leaving for a better life, burst into
existence in the first came! And again, if they were lucky! It was not so easy
to be there at the right time, facing a vacant mortal coil.
Everyone went to his case of "possession" of return. Sudden changes in mood and
behavior were now elucidated.
- We must raise the alarm, I say. We must stop people from committing suicide
and even thanatonauter. It's too dangerous!
Each home, we organized press conferences. Everyone did not believe us. There
were skeptics to declare that we want our sport us while he democratized and

231

that soon even the workers could thanatonauter Sunday. What to say to that?
Despite our warnings, ectoplasmic travel agencies continued to do business.
There would always hotheads to go strolling on the most ultimate continents,
they were convinced that accidents happen to others.
The idea of being bitten her body during a takeoff yet discouraged some. It was
not nice to think
anyone, in case of misfortune, would then happen to you and slip into your
family and into your wife's bed without anyone be able to tell the difference.
For candidates to suicide, it went differently than for tourists from the
beyond. Some sought the feat, other safety and happiness. Conrad vain settle her
pills stock "offside" unsold, there was hardly any buyers. Turn into wandering
soul looking for a body, and this perhaps for centuries to come, it was not a
very exciting future.
People had realized that suicide did not call at all a counter to zero, that
existence must necessarily be lived through. Small miseries we relearned to get
used.
The explanation of my Indian colleague had another advantage: she comforted the
parents of babies or teenagers died too soon, by disease or accident. It could
be suicides who, after reincarnation in a foreign physical envelope had a few
years to live. A man who commits suicide at sixty when he should have died at
sixty-six and reborn into the skin of a child doomed to die in six years.
It was definitely a complete science as manage his karma and each day brought a
lot of new laws.
Raoul walled up in silence. I knew he was thinking continually àStefania. We had
heard through the newspapers. She had gathered around her a bunch of "bad guys".
The Tibetan Buddhist Italian we had so loved professed everywhere that the
property should be balanced with evil. That, whatever our knowledge now,
cravings suicide resume in a world so bland.
Under his aegis, a horde of punks in black leather jacket, perched on
motorcycles, tried his best to promote acts as outmoded as theft, murder, rape
and looting. But fear of damaging his karma was still too strong, Stefania had
trouble às'adjoindre henchmen and initiative remained isolated.
Stefania was a little figure of national curiosity and even when police were
able to arrest him, her or his family quelquesuns they abstained. They feared
that the operation can be considered as an aggression and said that, anyway, the
bandits would be sufficiently punished in their reincarnations.
Yet, for Raoul and for me too, Stefania became a big concern. By embodying evil,
it proved that there was
412
still risks to take in this world. It gave relief well. By sacrificing his karma
to clean up the company, she finally engaged in an act of pure selflessness.
We all felt vaguely that in reality the cursed Stefania was a saint. We did not
know what to do. Finally, we decided to go back up there to see a bit what was
going on.
272 - ADVERTISING
Mr. Vinstack, forty-two years old, single, runs a modeling agency. He loves life
and he tells us why
"For me, life is women. All are different. With a mouth, eyes, legs, breasts, a
perfume, an approach, a haircut, a different port neck. Never have I n 'have
time to know them all. That's why I'm glad that life is actually quite long. I'm
on my twelfth wedding. I'd love to live a hundred years to find a maximum of
women. As women only exist in life, I say thank you life and I say thank you
women. "
This is a message from the National Agency for the promotion of life.
273-IS IT STILL COMPLICATED

232

Still many daredevils on the way to heaven! Ah! yes, takeoffs had nothing to do
with those of the early days when we évoluions, alone among the dead.
Now, no sooner had we left Earth that found itself stuck in a crowd of
ectoplasmic tourists, umbilical cords tied to that of their guide, recycled
monk.
And always as many advertisements, if not more! Films not to be missed in the
next existences, advertisements for ready meals, food for cats and dogs pet,
cigarettes, unusual journeys ... And of course, a large poster of the National
Agency for life, touting back to life!
Lucinder had endeavored to establish greater security on the Ultimate Continent.
From the entrance, a sign projected by a Turkish dervish turner set the tone
413
"Welcome to Heaven. You are a thousand light-years from Earth. Attention danger!
Travel ban alone. Make sure your ectoplasmic cord carefully àtresser than your
guide."
Ensued the various laws enacted with UN support
Article 1. Heaven does not belong to any country or any religion.
Article 2. Paradise is open to all and no one has the right to impede the free
access.
Article 3. It is forbidden to cut the umbilical cord ectoplasmic of others. Such
an act is criminal and will be prosecuted as such.
Article 4. Any physical body will be held responsible for its activities
ectoplasm.
Article S. Thanatonautes tourists are requested to leave this place as clean as
they would like to find in their actual death.
Article 6. It is forbidden to disturb the angels in their work.
Article 7. It is forbidden to store the memories and fantasies of another.
Everyone is free owner of his own experiences, as in Paradise here on earth.
Article 8. It is prohibited to affix ectoplasmic graffiti on the advertisements
adorning the hallways.
Article 9. It is forbidden to hide behind the doors comatiques to play tricks on
the dead in transit.
Article 10. It is forbidden to talk to the archangels during weighing a soul.
Article 11. It is forbidden to interfere in favor or against a soul at the time
of weighing. No external evidence can not affect the archangels.
Article 12. The Paradise is not an amusement park. Parents with their children
are asked to leash their ectoplasmic cord.
Everything had been planned for the comfort and safety of tourists. On the
surface of the first door spread comatic
"Moch 1. Warning: People aggressive memories sensitive refrain Those who are
unable to afford their past are requested..
414
clinch their umbilical cord of their guide and regain their bodies. "
The dead of the day and does not Thanatonautes less rushed en masse, despite the
warning. Some were playing to fight painful memories of how to wrestlers. As all
this was indecent! Greek tourists were playing voyeurs looking at bubbles which
concerned them at all.
Around, advertisements singing the praises of psychoanalysts and private
detectives, for those who still had the opportunity to make amends.
As each time through the black country, I found my car accident, my spats with
my brother, the death of Felix Kerboz, mad love once brought to Amandine, not to
mention a bunch of minor events I had never really digested. I was getting used
to it.
Moch 2 and back in the red zone of pleasure. Some tourists had perfectly

233

disgusting fantasies. I thought this place looked more and more to the hot and
humid inside of a woman's sex. Perhaps Amandine, she imagined in a man's sex ...
Here, the ads were for sex shops, peep shows and porn videos, despite the
amendments.
Shoving his fantasies of orgies and young stallions oversized, Amandine took me
so that I do not hit me again to its double black leather. A woman pursued me
shouting to call Nadine Kent. I shouted telepathically him to leave me, I was
married and a father. Nadine's fantasy then metamorphosed to adopt the buxom
Stefania.
Really, I fantasized about all the women around me.
When in doubt, Amandine took my hand up to 3 Moch.
"Watch out. Here, Moch 3. You are about to enter the orange country. That eager
to turn around while there is still time."
The crossing lasted only two or three minutes, but it seemed to us to drag on
for four or five hours. Everywhere advertisements for watch manufacturers.
Certainly, it was not worth it to enact laws if they were not even respected.
I marveled over the stars or meet
415
famous men. I was just anxious to get out of there. We blase about everything.
Time, what a terrible opponent!
Yellow Zone. "Attention Moch 4. You are about to enter the country of knowledge.
Abstain if you are not able to learn all the truths of the world."
- Eureka! Eureka! telepathically bellowed Greek tourists, very excited.
Moch 6, finally.
"Welcome to the seventh heaven. Here ends the destiny. You are in the bright
background of the black hole. To those who will appear before the judges want a
good reincarnation. To others, it is reminded not to disturb the angels at work
"issued the dervish official turner.
We advanced in the white area of the weighing of souls. Angels began to be
familiar to us. They paid no attention to the tourists, but, however, three of
them came up to Raoul, Amandine and me.
Some Greeks asked questions they did not hear mine.
- Okay, said the Greeks, it is here but where is Olympus Zeus?
They did not understand these idiots. No Zeus, Jupiter, Quetzalcoatl, Thor or
Isis. Angels do not have a supervisor. Similarly, the angels do not have names,
they all carry the names. Angels have no nationality, they have all
nationalities, all religions, all philosophies. How stupid that chauvinism which
suggests that its own deities are necessarily more imposing than the other!
I do not immediately perceived that the telepathic cry suddenly pushed by one of
the Greeks was no surprise but fear. Everything became clearer when he screamed
in his language, telepathically, we all understand
- My umbilical cord is cut!
- Impossible! his guide replied calmly. It is always linked ALA braid of our
group.
- No, the other whimpered. It is low that the ruled!
This meant that while the ectoplasm was walking here on earth his body had been
murdered. As the cord was actually tied to that of others, he remained linked to
them. It is only
416
when the group would defeat its nodes as the now deceased would be unfortunate
sucked towards its next reincarnation. It was horrible to know death well away
elsewhere!
We hardly realize the situation that another already cried murder! One after the
other, the eighteen Greek tourists made the same sad statement. Their cords ball
was indeed intact, but nothing connected it to Earth. All had lost their
physical body! Together they spun join the long river of the dead.
Yes, the carnal envelopes are vulnerable at any moment and it is always
dangerous to abandon them. Taken apprehension, Raoul, Amandine and I écourtâmes

234

as fast trip to hurriedly retreating to the comfortable armor that were our
bodies.
The evening papers désignèrent the authors of the heavenly package
Stefania and her band. The Italian had sent press releases to major news
agencies to announce that it now targets its thanatodromes again and would ship
in the Ultimate Continent alien lovers walks. She heard and make his fear of
death and mystery. Extensive program!
- Stefania's right! exclaimed Raoul. We went too far.
In protest.
- But it is you who first, you wanted to know all about death! And now that we
have unlocked the secrets, you regret?
My friend had definitely changed completely. Pacing the penthouse, he decreed
- We would have done better to remain in ignorance. Oppenheimer also regretted
having designed the atomic bomb.
- It is too late to go back, I whispered.
- It's never too late to start, Raoul said.
Amandine, Rose and I hochâmes head. Raoul suddenly had the same accent as his
wife
- Well, we managed to stop the suicides. But look a little around you as people
have become vapid! It happens nothing. No more war, more crime, more adultery,
more everything short passion. Only Stefania showed courage.
While the world was unbearable. I came to thanatonau417
tick to fight against boredom and my thanatonautique had made the world boring!
By the glass, I caught a young boy, furtively, stuck a poster on the sly.
Stefania A portrait in black and white, in big red letters: "Together to
rearrange evil!"
274-Rosicrucian Philosophy
"By your desires, you attract your life. Around you is a mental atmosphere that
attracts all but not equally attracts all things. This mental atmosphere is made
of your wishes. It is also made of your fears that are Part negative desires.
These are the two sides of the same coin. In addition to your conscious desires,
your wants and there unconscious fears. Thus you attract people and events that
make up the fabric of your life. The action is a solidified desire.
We can free ourselves in the emotional untying knots of past and current
situations. "
Max Heindel, Rosicrucian Cosmo.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
275 - THE THIEF OF SOULS
These were the cries of junior Freddy rameutèrent that we, Rose and I, watching
television. The cartoon Puerto Rican he followed carefully had suddenly
interrupted. White and black stripes zigzagging on the small screen.
- Dad, there is a failure.
It was not a failure. The welts already left the place àl'image Stefania.
- She managed to hack the fifty-third chain, the most popular and at the hour of
the largest listening! exclaimed Rose, very appreciative.
We made our silent son indignantly to be deprived of his favorite show, and I
increased the sound to better hear the words of our friend.
Somewhere in a forest, perched on a grassy mound,
418
Stefama haranguing a small crowd. Focus on his face once so happy and now tense.
- Thank you all for coming, she said. I know what courage it takes to promise to

235

indulge in risk of harm to sully his karma. But it's for the good of all mankind
that we act.
Trust rumor. Dolly boys in black tank top with tattooed muscles and girls with
long hair hanging over their torn jeans. At the same time that millions of
viewers, Stefania was addressing the faithful.
- The world is in itself neither good nor bad. Nature, God, or any principle
whatsoever to which we ascribe the direction of our existence, bring neither
reward nor punishment. For us to learn from our experiences. There is only one
fault
ignorance.
"The whole history of humanity is full of abominations and atrocities. To us
still to learn. An instruction received in pain is always more effective than a
lesson learned in joy.
"But I can assure you, at the time of judgment will relive all the pleasures and
all the suffering you have procured for your next. All your experiences. Because
the Earth is a place of experience. All your actions here, you will grasp the
importance at the time of your death. In fact, I said you, tell you when the
archangels reach of most blameworthy of your actions, they do not react in
anger, nor by the indignation. They just laugh at your foolishness.
"The purpose of existence is not goodness. The purpose of existence is the
realization of oneself. The purpose of existence is not to be nice, but to be
constantly aware . The purpose of existence is to abolish ignorance.
"In Italy, during the thirty-year reign of the Borgias, the country has
experienced war, terror, murder, poisoning and produced Leonardo da Vinci,
Michelangelo and all the spiritual current of the Renaissance. In Switzerland
they brotherly love, five centuries of peace and democracy, and what they
produced? Watches to accurately measure the time of their endless boredom.
"Since ancient times, Good fight against evil, the Beau against the Ugly, the
Truth against falsehood, against the Yin Yang, and it is this constant
confrontation have always sprung knowledge and progress because one never went
without the others.
419
Now, with the knowledge of Ultimate Continent, with this if human tendency to
always want to simplify everything, people have brought the goal of life in a
single requirement: goodness! What a mistake! Verily I said you, evil is
essential àl'équilibre things here below.
Fifty girls and boys, more sinister than each other, chanted around her
- We will bring evil! We will bring evil!
- Thank you my friends. Thank you. In a first attempt to bring humanity back to
a correct view of reality, we have already sent in the beyond a group of Greek
tourists, occasional Thanatonautes, which had nothing to do in Paradise. This is
just the beginning, we will continue our struggle. Verily I you said, we will
not stop there.
Stefania's black eyes flashed. She was transfigured in his will to convince of
the rightness of his cause.
A shaggy beard jumped beside her.
- By the threats and violence, we terroriserons Les Thanatonautes. We will
obtain the closure of thanatodromes. Anyone who will engage in a takeoff will
advance by us condemned to death. Last warning tourists of death!
Laughter and applause. Roar of motorcycles.
A punk identified under kohl and scarlet mouth shouted, dominating the tumult
- There are not that thanatodromes! Evil must be everywhere! And it must end
room sentimentality! For this, it is very simple actions!
- What do you suggest? asked a hoarse voice.
- Why not revive the hard rock? We only hear of classical or relaxing music in
stores and on the radio. Y really tired. I want to rock concerts of thunder!
- From rock to rock! chanted the activists of Evil.
- Want some? I have.
The camera fell on the rock fan. Climbed on his motorcycle, smoking cigarettes,
an unshaven guy, bandana on his forehead, like a relic brandishing a tape. Above

236

was written the name of a group, AC / DC and a title, very old though promising,
Highway to Hell. His mount was pledged a cassette player. He slipped one all
around him gazed with envy.
420
He increased the volume to maximum and the air was filled with sounds
increasingly violent.
Everyone trémoussèrent once in a sort of barbaric tribal dance, Stefania
surrounding their leader and imitating his lascivious movements.
Won the same excitement. By themselves, they awaken the world.
- If we exist, that God willing! Stefania cried.
- If we kill, it is because God wills it! shouted the bearded.
- If we love hard rock, it is because God wills it! exclaimed the punk.
- God is good but God is evil, for God is all, 'said Stefania, breathless. Up
there, I met Satan and, in reality, I assure you, is a very respectable! Stop
the music, Billy Joe.
The motorcyclist complied immediately. No dancer, and yet they were all
ecstatic, like whirling dervishes, did not protest. Apparently, Stefania was
revered in his evil clan and worshipers obeyed the finger and the eye.
- There are not that hard rock to have disappeared. There also alcohol. People
do not dare drink because they fear to misbehave under the influence of alcohol.
All distilleries have virtually disappeared from the face of the Earth. Let us
open to clandestine and bottles are spreading everywhere.
I thought it should have in petto occasionally see her former husband. There's
one at least who had not given up! And obviously, bottles, he knew where to dig.
The Evil promoters found none the less great idea. Generalizing drunkenness, it
was an idea that kicking them. Alcoholism, that promised men roueraient liked
women and children, drunken motorists Crushers good people and why not rape, all
released impulses! A great stone in the garden of kindness!
- Yeah. Congratulations alcohol!
- And after alcohol, there still ...
- Drugs, suggested Billy Joe, who apparently understood quickly.
- Drugs! Stefania approved. Recreate from dealer networks. There must still be
some stocks in the suburbs. It is enough to politely ask the former kingpins.
They rant of us
421
Coke without problems so they will be sure to commit good! '' 278 BALANCE SHEET
Action by helping to junkies in need.
The sounds of AC / DC again resounded in the background
violent before Stefania do sums
- My friends, you all know now what you have to do
recruit new followers, murdering Thanatonautes, spread
alcohol and narcotics. Together, verily, I assure you, we
manage to reinstate the sacred balance between Good and Evil.
Then, setting right the camera and addressing his audience
CRT, it concludes calmly
- Evil is reborn. All, shake or drop
join!
A kind of fog invaded the small screen and Freddy Junior
could get on with his cartoon.
276 - POLICE SHEET
Message to the relevant departments
My our fault. Spontaneous human movement. WIG craft not
Stefarua Chichelli need to put Thanatonautes out of harm's way.
Natural reaction to laxity that has lasted too long.
Response services concerned
No matter whether you are or not involved. We stick

237

still ancient policy of openness.
277-MYTHOLOGIE ZOROASTRIAN
A fifth of the dead will arise from the earth, with body and
having the same appearance as when they die, to where
the breath had left their bodies. They arise in pairs, the
father and son, husband and wife, master and disciple, who
order and the one who obeys.
Arise, O corporeal beings, you who have followed the Yasat,
you who died on this earth!
Extract from the thesis that The Unknown Mors, by Francis Razorbak.
422
Despite all his enthusiasm and all his eloquence, Stefania failed to revive the
forces of evil. She never managed to gather more than a hundred thugs, which is
échinèrent delinquency in general indifference.
The Italian distributed thousands of leaflets that people gathered without
reading throw them into the nearest trash can. They thus contribute to the
cleanliness of the city, an easy bonus to take.
Some newspapers took up the text without more results. However, he did not lack
interest
What are the sins par excellence?
Killing? Or if a god, any god exists, it has never prevented people to
exterminate them. Instead, wars have become a way as another to avoid
overcrowding and thus prevent human crush the other species.
Flying? Who are we to claim that anything belongs to us alone and not to
another? Flying is not a sin, but rather the refusal to give to others who would
be one.
Do not respect the name of God? But if a god exists, it is certainly a very wise
and intelligent entity, so devoid of pride and pretension. God, if God exists,
does not care and those who worship and those who insult him.
Do not respect the sacred things? But nothing is sacred. The priests who claim
interpreters god merely committing themselves the sin of pride. Who can dare say
that such a place, such a thing is sacred? Pretension, pretension only.
Angels are not aware of any. There is an authority above them. Call it God if
you want, but know that God is absolutely record of good deeds and kindness.
People of the world, wake up! The kindness, there is nothing worse. "
In his fury, our friend had thrown away the Tibetan Book of the Dead, his
breviary of yesteryear, to rush on the Little Red Book of Mao. She was burning
for the taste of the action of this Chinese president.
Like him, she considered that it is in contradiction to
423
reveals the true nature of the world and is readily compared to the Great
Helmsman, speaking of the need for a permanent revolution and preparing, too, a
Long March. The contradiction is the engine of thought, said Mao. The revolution
by Evil is a necessity for humanity, completed Stefania Chichelli.
Mao had his Red Army, she had her black army. His troops were playing well in
their debauchery. Good, it was something gained. At the price they would pay for
their sins there, as they first enjoy the pleasure of doing a little evil in
this world.
Difficult to reverse for a world overrun by goodness! The "poor", it was said
everywhere, pity for those unfortunate propagators harming karmas if damaged!
Thanks to them, however, the existence became less bland. We watched their next
evil deed pimenterait if a little bland daily. They also admirers who praised

238

their selfless courage. And also, with these "bad guys", one could win with it
some bonus points.
Now that all possible clothes had been given to the Companions of Emmaus, when
someone chanced drugs, alcohol or weapons in an attic, he immediately dispatched
to lovers of Evil. They had beautiful kill many tourists from Paradise, this did
not prevent the cases of specialized agencies to turn over again. Murdered, it
was definitely a good way to die a martyr.
279 - IT DOES NOT ARRANGE
It was at this time that Lucinder decided to end her life. Bystanders shredded
discovered at the foot of the Montparnasse Tower. The President had climbed over
the parapet by a day of rain which rendered the pavement shimmering.
Jumping into space requires a lot of courage. Especially in bad weather. In
addition, many of those who jump out of the windows are doing. It must be said
that in general they choose the fourth or fifth floors. So either they land
softly on a car hood or a pile of garbage, or they find themselves crushed legs
paraplegic in a wheelchair.
Lucinder him, had left no chance. He jumped from the fifty-eighth floor. As
always effective, it had set
424
paratrooper position head first to make it safe and fast.
Why was he killed while all political indicators were set fair? Looking back, I
wonder if, as Stefania, it was not suddenly disgusted by this soft society he
himself had helped to create. Was it that he wants to autocondamner thus turn
into wandering soul!
A maid discovered the will that the deceased had on his desk
"I finally realized that it is useless to be famous, wrote our friend.
Immortality is razor. I want people to take away my name from all the history
books and dictionaries. I want us debunks all my statues. I want us to remove
all the street signs in my name. I want the simplest funeral procession without
pump and without. I do not want to be smoked in a padded coffin in a marble
slab. No flowers, no wreaths, no tears, no Requiem or funeral oration. I wish to
be buried under a tree. And without stele indicating my presence. I want to
return directly to earth, being invaded by roots of the tree, nibbled by slugs,
earthworms, bugs. Despite my suicide, maybe me and I réincarnerai fertile humus?
If my flesh served only little in my lifetime, that it is at least good compost
after my death.
It took a long time to understand, but now I see the meaning of life. President
or bum, king or slave, we are all alike. Nothing but small grains of sand lost
in the universe. I claim the privilege of being a grain of sand to humanity. I
was only a grain of sand, of course, but I know that without grains of sand,
there would never beaches. "
Of course, the interior minister decided to burn on-MyField such a subversive
text.
The death of President Lucinder could have a new brake on the thanatonautique
movement. It did not happen. After his grandiose funeral, unlike v (also ignored
them all, it is devoted whole chapters in the history books, was erected a huge
statue of him in the street of the Hôtelde City. The interim government decreed
that the thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont he created is now called thana425
todrome Lucinder, as the medal would be thanatonautique àprésent Lucinder medal.
It is counted more towns and villages who dedicated her avenues and streets.
We sometimes choose his life, but it is difficult to choose his death!
Richard Picpus was elected president easily. His first address was a tribute to
Lucinder. He said that his only goal was to continue the work of the great

239

"initiator" of the thanatonautique.
It was at the end of these ceremonies that Raoul told me that he intended to
remarry. Stefania had so far removed from his life that he considered himself
free.
280 - ADVERTISING
On the television screen, a man in a white coat, smiling forties front of a
blackboard.
"Hello, I am the Filipini teacher. I am a scientist. I have long been
researching life. See this formula (the teacher holds up a rule to the table),
it is that of hydrogen. An atom , an electron, nothing more simple. Look below
(the rule moves on the table). This is the formula of DNA. Deoxyribonucleic
Acid. Rather complicated, right? Well, life is that, and there's very little in
the universe. The universe is made up to 99
poor hydrogen and finds only 0.00000001% of DNA as it is complex, life. Even the
man is unable to produce, of life.
So do not waste yours. Every life is precious. If you do not respect yourself,
respect the chemical life in you. "
Sweet female voice-over: "This is a message from the ANPV, the National Agency
for the promotion of life."
281-Mesopotamian Mythology
"But you Gilgamesh
What ever your stomach is satiated
Be joyful night and day
Make every day of your life
426
282 - nuptials
A festival of joy and pleasures
Whether your clothes are clean and sumptuous
Washing your face and bathe yourself
Flatters the child holding you by the hand
Rejoice wife is in your arms.
That's the only rights that have men. "
The Epic of Gilgamesh.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
The elected Raoul was Amandine. I expected more. Neither Rose nor I had
surprised tender glances, touches of hands, kisses stolen in the evenings
penthouse. We did not hear doors slamming during the night between the two
apartments. In addition, during its endless drinking, Raoul had stopped crying
Stefania.
Finally, the facts were there and radiant married.
Nine months later, Amandine gave birth to a small burnet. The event upset
Raoul's personality completely. He who had always lived according to his
parents, that he found himself a father himself and moved to the other side of
the fence. Now he threw himself on his own brood a whole different look.
We had a long discussion in his living room. Suddenly became lucid, Raoul
understand how her mother could turn away from a man who forsook the only worry
that death. Certainly, she had hated her father, she had deceived him, but she
had not even murdered when his hands. It was he who, realizing her loneliness in
a world where, just beyond, he lost interest, had made the decision to hang
himself. His wife had not itself attached to the flush!

240

He spoke and shouted Pimprenelle. It was his way of communicating with the
world. When she was not getting the attention she wanted, which is not extended
to him as soon as the toy she claimed, she was screaming. Amandine undertook to
calm her.
Under the decibels of the girl, Raoul told me his latest thoughts
427
- There is only one way to love his parents forgive them, whatever they did.
Then there is more to forgive yourself not to have forgiven them earlier.
My friend remembered the little things that make the big childish grudges. So
when he was little, he could not stand her mother do the dishes rather than look
after him. "Wait three minutes," she told him. He wanted then to neglect him and
not give him instantly to his tyranny. He closed his love to punish, is
depriving the same time.
On reflection, his relations with his parents were like enough to mine!
Burnet was still screaming and Raoul rushed in turn. In her arms, she slowly
recovered from her tears. Would she, too, one day forgive him for not being
rushed faster? Sauraitelle one day forgive him for not having offered him all
the love and all the toys in the world?
283 - ADVERTISING
A lanky big boy, mop of hair, wearing jeans, lounging in a brown leather chair.
"Hi. My name is Thomas Frilinot. Me, the life, I like to spend it with a bunch
of friends. Life alone is already good, but with buddies, it's even more fun.
What we do with our life together? Uh, well we play cards and then ... blah,
especially we play cards. And I, my friends, the cards, I like it. And life too,
of course. Because, without life, cards and buddies, that would be really bad,
right? So, long live life, guys! "
Soft voice: n This is a message of ANPV, the National Agency for the promotion
of life. to
284-Vedic Philosophy
"The man has a thousand He heads a thousand eyes, a thousand feet Covering the
earth and through it still exceeds the ten fingers.
428
Man is something that this universe
What happened, what is to come.
He is the master of the immortal area
Because it grows beyond food. "
Rig-Veda.
Extract from the thesis that unknown Death by Francis Razorbak.
285 - IS IT STILL COMPLICATED
That night I had
The dream was so
the same time as
story as I wrote

a dream.
strong, so realistic, so logical, so consistent and so scary at
I hastened to record the wake in every detail. Here is the
out this matinlà.

"The Archangel Gabriel descends to Earth to address the General Assembly of the
United Nations. His speech is simple and direct. Humans never ceasing to
reproduce, its services, he said, are completely submerged in the dead of every
day. Seven billion humans, is enough! How to weigh all these souls with only
three judges archangels, even working twenty-four hours out twenty-four! The

241

orange country is full of souls waiting. Files are sloppy. There were mistakes.
Wise were reincarnated as gangsters as perfect scoundrels become pure spirits,
with a cycle of reincarnations prematurely and unfairly interrupted.
The archangel Gabriel is therefore of human choice: either finally properly
regulate births or send aid to heaven. After all, since ectoplasm from living
bodies come to the edge of the continent Ultimate, why not remain to help
identify and control the karmic records?
Meeting in emergency session, the heads of state of the planet fully understand
the issue. They recognize that it is impossible to impose a strict birth
control. So they opt for the second solution: sending ectoplasmic officials in
Paradise.
A new caste of leather round-born. Regulars of
429
paperwork transform every morning ectoplasmic agents and sit on their thrones
off as others at the same time, take the subway or commuter train. Up there, the
angels have planned for them the offices where they will analyze at their ease
their clients' pages.
Of course, these are all international officials sworn in. However, one of them
commits the first prank by warning his son, after consulting his record, that if
he did not stop terrorizing his classmates, he will be reincarnated as a slug.
This seems trivial, yet the oath is broken.
No one is perfect and administrations, always going by growing with increasing
populations, sworn ectoplasm were soon so numerous that the incidents are
increasing.
For example, regarding the kid who insists on playing the bad heads, her father
finally changed his rope a little, just to settle the karma of her offspring. It
adds 100 points. Hop là! Quickly. Not seen, not caught.
But it's not just the family, friends there. And friends of friends ... And
those, who always well informed, knowing that officials even sworn in, are never
so well paid that much, manage to find their identity and send them an envelope
wisely. A few tickets, and that provided a good reincarnation!
Gradually, it establishes a real black market for good reincarnations. The rich
pay to know where exactly is their karma and how many sins they can still
afford. In advance, they ensure rebirth in wealthy families and in excellent
health. So that the rich stay rich and healthy in their next life. The poor
remain poor and sick in their next existence.
It is no longer a dream, it is a nightmare. A new middle class appears: the
Thanatocrates.
Whatever his behavior here, it becomes impossible to be reincarnated in better
if we did not have the financial means to bribe an ectoplasmic official.
Formerly, which frightened most people was to commit sins. Now it is to be poor,
because we know we will remain forever, for all his reincarnations, without any
possibility of escape from this vicious circle of failure.
All the rules of the game are changed. It lives only
430
for money. Everything is good to get: theft, prostitution, fraud, crime, drug
trafficking. This is the opposite of the virtuous period. Any act aims only the
conquest of money.
My son Freddy is beset by racketeers to after school, my wife Rose gets snatch
her purse in the supermarket.
The mafia is reborn from its ashes. No longer hesitate to hire professional
killers to seize the property of others or get rid of a business rival. Having
money makes it possible to remake a karmic virginity, so why bother?
The world is completely dominated by money. The remains of different religions
launch campaign for humans to stop meddling in the affairs of Paradise.
But giving up the beyond is make again all the responsibilities to the angels,
or they are no longer able to manage the seven billion inhabitants of the
planet. The world becomes more and more wild and more ignorant ... "

242

I was awoke shivering and sweating. Was it possible that we are misled us so
much?
I was convinced, the angels had sent me a message through their usual way of
communication: the dream. And its content was clear: stop everything before the
situation escalates to the point of control.
Quickly, I showered, got dressed and went down to breakfast with other coffee. I
found only Raoul. Junior had already gone to kindergarten. Amandine and Rose had
gone shopping.
I looked at the cat's bistro. It seemed safe. The kind of cat that has it all
and merely bask in its reincarnation. Happy beast. It will probably be reborn as
someone very relaxed.
Then a police officer jumped in coffee screaming. It was hard to understand what
he bellowed but basically it meant: "Your thanatodrome, they're ransacking your
thanatodrome"
286-JEWISH PHILOSOPHY
"Just as the human body consists of members and parts of various ranks with all
these actions and reactions
to form a single body, and the vast world consists of a hierarchy of created
things which, when they have each other appropriate actions and reactions,
literally form one organic body. "
Zohar.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
287-ATTACK FORT BUTTES-CHAUMONT
They were worshipers of Evil. Stefania had to order them to destroy our
thanatodrome. Through the windows of the ground floor and the store, we saw them
demolish everything baseball bat and bike chain.
Raoul gave me a nudge.
- You and me against the fools?
This sentence suddenly plunged me in the past. When Raoul and I were still the
best of friends and when he impressed me as using his voice against the
worshipers of Beelzebub. The challenge was difficult and yet we managed. Again,
the victory seemed beyond our reach. But see the store ransacked my mother,
memories-containing balls of snow, split, leaving their pretty flowing liquid,
posters Paradise torn, soiled T-shirts, photos of Amandine covered with whiskers
or other obscene drawings , survolta me.
We crossed the door. First, no one paid attention to us. Raoul was even able to
grab a long metal tube protecting a giant poster and offer me.
He passed me over. Suddenly, I forgot how upset we were, how he became an
alcoholic. I held the fort improvised weapon.
We were together. He and I against fools. He and I against the world.
He grabbed her as an aluminum tube. There were two rather scary thugs. Shaggy,
smelly, tattooed body skulls and infernal signs, they wore rictus of rage and
cruelty.
One was busy splitting stabbing scarves representing the map of Paradise while
the other broke his teeth with the dolls of the most popular angels.
432
- Stop that right now! Raoul barked.
Our burst stunned them. They believed that, in a world so nice, no one would
dare oppose their raid. They had already successfully taunted police and
soldiers. They felt invincible.
For a moment they stopped, banned, but quickly resumed. The biggest approached

243

us, almost smiling. He reached out to shake like one of us, then, came near, he
gave me a big kick in the groin. I should have stayed on my guard. I had
forgotten that the worshipers of Evil did not respect anything and had no code
of honor.
I collapsed, cut in two. I had just enough time to see Raoul leap to punish the
miscreant a great shot of aluminum tube on the head. The second bore down on us.
The scene turned to boxing. I stood up and bagarrai myself as best I could. To
my surprise, I do not clapped too bad. Perhaps the wars of Paradise had they
given me more confidence. After all, had I not overthrown with the help of
Amandine, of course, the terrible master haschischins?
I take a plaster statue of Felix and crushed it on the head of the great. The
guy collapsed. Thank you, Felix. The second not claimed his account and fled to
the floors to get reinforcements. We pursued them.
On the sixth floor, we surcharges four burly armed with axes who amused
themselves all to smithereens. They had destroyed the chairs, broken one by one
all the screens and scopes for identifying flights.
The one who seemed their leader had a face that was familiar. For the first
time, recognition was mutual.
- Well, well, who do I see? he said.
Raoul also recognized. It was the big Martinez. Our class enemy which we had
saved lives during first flights thanatonautiques. I remembered a lesson from
Meyer. "If someone is hurting you and you do not avenge you, he wants you strong
If someone hurts you and that you not only do you not seek revenge but in
addition you save his life or you do him good, he will hate you in a terrible
hatred. But we must love our enemies, if only because it bears their nerves. "
That was the case. Far from us be thankful for having spared the risky
experiments Fleury-Merogis, Martinez us
433
wanted to have private celebrity Felix. He rushed with his ax that Raoul
clumsily tried to block its aluminum tube. It was cut in two.
Simultaneously, two Malabar fell upon me.
Raoul, a snug kick, Martinez reached the fingers clutching the ax. The sharp
weapon dropped.
- Bastard, I'll have your hide! said our former class mate.
He caught Raoul's head and began to tighten. But, slender and supple, my friend
pulled away to grab the waist.
I had no time to follow further their duel. Already my opponents overwhelmed me.
We fought like kids, I was pulling their hair and they scratched my neck of
their long dirty nails. It fell to the ground. The others were about to gain the
upper hand when suddenly a voice is heard.
- I'm here guys!
Maxime Villain ran to the rescue, armed with a nunchaku. With this oriental
weapon it was quite laughable, but the reinforcement was much appreciated. It is
nevertheless useful to have friends.
- You have to call the police! I braillai.
- It will not help, replied Villain. They will never dare to fight, even the
cops are afraid of damaging their karma!
It was the great hullabaloo. The objects were flying, aiming faces, baseball bat
whipped the air, interspersed dull blows of fists against flesh. We were so busy
we slug it out and strangle us that we do not pay attention toa prêtâmes roar of
motorcycle tracking not dry up the stairs.
A figure appeared in the doorway.
Stefania.
- Enough! Does intima.
She pointed to a large automatic pistol caliber 9 mm. We raised our hands.
The Italian round was much thinner in its forests. Chestnuts and squirrels, it
does not feed. She was beautiful, with a large black cape red lapels. Thus, she
looked like a little fantasy amon third territory. She looked at us with
delight.
- Long ago I wanted this interview, she said.

244

- It was enough to call. We would have made an appointment, Raoul remarked
mockingly.
434
Apparently she did not taste humor her former husband. Behind her, scolded his
henchmen.
- Stop spouting nonsense, Raoul, she launched, using the tone of warlord she had
become.
- But I listen, Stefania, I'm all ears.
- Know when my men and I came here to destroy the thanatodrome. I have much,
much thought, Raoul. We were wrong. We lost our way from the beginning. We must
destroy the monster that we have built.
Martinez, who was bleeding from the mouth, proposed, rubbing the cheek
- And if we start by destroying these guys?
- No, she said firmly. These are my friends.
She came up to graze me
- You are my friends, Michaelese, Raoul, Maxime. To you, I never will do any
harm. But all this, it is necessary to demolish it. Go for it! she commanded.
And his band began to rampage, breaking everything.
They dismembered takeoff thrones, they broke the devices, they crushed the
vials.
- Raoul begging Stefania while continuing to keep us playing with his gun. For
pity's sake, put an end to the thanatonautique. Otherwise, it will only go from
bad to worse.
Raoul lowered his hands and approached her. I was sure she was going to shoot,
but no bullet left the barrel when he took his lips.
Meyer was right when he repeated: "You must love our enemies, if only because it
bears on their nerves!" They kissed and that moment of violence suspended by a
kiss was something magical. Fairy too. Martinez could not bear it. Taking
advantage of the general amazement, he picked up his ax and planted in the back
of Raoul.
Everything happened so quickly that no one had time to react.
Raoul opened wide in surprise and then, realizing that he had just assassinated,
he smiled and began to kiss greedily Stefania. It was she he loved most and
wanted from a kiss. He had discovered the death, the ultimate meaning of life
and yet, at the approach of his death, he thought only a last moment of
pleasure. Still love a little on this earth before going elsewhere.
Then he fell to his knees, the ax still stuck in the back.
435
- Quick, I cried, it is not too late, you have to restart an ectoplasmic takeoff
throne, we will recover before the soul reaches the underworld!
- No! Stefania said, sobs in his voice. No, let it die quietly.
She gestured to his henchmen and they bound him we.
Hands tied, I rushed forward to get closer to Raoul. It was not yet completely
gone. He opened his eyes, recognized me, smiled and mumbled something that I was
the only àentendre
"The link is unwound J 'have thrown down all the evil that is in me O Osiris
powerful I finally just been born Look at me, I've just been born."
He dragged himself to embrace the legs of the Italian then gave a final jolt.
We waste time, I was in rage. But Stefania had made his decision: Raoul had to
die "normally". As before, without anyone trying to stop him. Before, I
remember, people were dying and cared only for burial and their regrets. It is
so common nowadays to catch the dying that I had forgotten.
The Raoul's soul was leaving with a kiss to last memory of this "low" world.
Pretty dead, indeed! I wish success and mine. I reflected that Raoul had known
love. He had loved his father as to follow him in his adventure. He had loved
his mother as to forgive him for not having loved him enough. He loved books. He

245

had loved me to the point to train in its wake. He had loved Amanda. He had
loved Stefania. Meyer said: "It is very difficult to love really Generally there
is only one life for this, so do not miss it.".
Raoul's body lay in Stefania arm. Her eyes misted. Around us, his henchmen did
not know very well what to do. Their leader in tears: this was contrary to all
the precepts of the worshipers of Evil! They stood there idly.
- Come, let us go, she said.
Motorcycles pétaradèrent. The worshipers of evil disappeared as they had
appeared.
436
I considered my friend's corpse. The physical body was probably already emptied
of its soul. Could we put a spirit in that pile of meat?
It was now too late Raoul's soul must already be in the orange area, mixed with
billions of deaths. We never would find it. When I was sure he was dead,
irrevocably dead, I realized that Raoul had been my brother. My only real big
brother.
I wanted to howl at the moon like desert coyotes. Aouuuuuu. But nobody would
have understood that this is my only natural way of expressing my pain. When his
best friend dies, do not howl at the moon like a coyote, you must cry. Everyone
knows that.
288-MANUAL HISTORY
It was in 2068 that Maxime Villain, one of the masters of thanatonautique,
enunciated
"As long as man is mortal, it can be casual."
It was the answer through the centuries to the American philosopher Woody Allen.
Indeed, what has he more horrible than immortality? Imagine a life that never
ceases to last, to repeat, to extend to infinity?
It would quickly become blasé about everything, sad, demotivated, cantankerous.
We would have no purpose in time, no hope, no limit, no more fear. The days
without mechanically égrèneraient we appreciate them. Gifted leaders could reign
without end. Everything would be all blocked by the strong who never grow old.
Nobody would be able to end his life.
Immortality is a thousand times worse than death.
Fortunately, our bodies age, our time on earth is limited, our karmas are
renewed, each new life is full of surprises and disappointments, joys and
betrayals, pettiness and generosity.
Death is essential for life. Really, let's be casual ... because by chance one
day we die 1
History textbook for elementary school classes 2 year.
437
289 - ectoplasm RAZORBAK
The archangel Gabriel greeted ectoplasm Raoul Razorbak with the deference due to
a Great Initiate.
- This time it is for good, he just saw.
After a brief council, the three archangels Judges remembered with a Great
Initiate, there was no need for weighing or haggling for future life. This soul
was already aware of everything. The procedure was necessarily different.
The archangel Raphael explained briefly Raoul his merits in previous lives had
earned him this rather quick death by an ax in the back. Its merits have also
earned him access aAll knowledge he had desired and especially to become a Grand
Initiate. The time was not ripe yet for his soul to be transformed into pure
spirit: he was too sin of pride, had allowed himself to drunkenness, had
maintained revenge-seeking.
However, facing a Grand Initiate, and given the qualities that had allowed him

246

access to that rank, it was customary for the archangels judges abandon their
prerogatives. A ectoplasm Razorbak Raoul, therefore, to decide for itself its
next reincarnation.
The soul of our friend thanked him with gratitude. He was the first toKNOW not
being in possession of six hundred items needed to end the cycle.
- I want to be reincarnated as e tree, told the ectoplasm of Razorbak.
- In what? took fright the archangel Gabriel.
- In the tree, Raoul repeated firmly.
The archangel Michael tried to reason with him.
- Come, ye know that consciousness is changing from mineral to plant, from plant
to animal and from animal to human. We reserve this kind of regression to free
scoundrels. Tree is unworthy of you.
- Maybe, but I'm so tired! It is in all lucidity I beg you to grant me this
regression. I am tired of the hectic world of humans. Even animals move too. I
want to find the immobility of plants. For me it is not a regression but
appeasement.
438
- Let it be done according to your will! sighed the archangel Gabriel.
- All right, made the soul, invigorated. Show me what you have to offer me as a
plant body. There must be somewhere couples copulating plant, daisy pollen
entering into contact with the male stamens of a congener. Put me in a seed,
tuber, an onion! Then I jaillirai ground for a lifetime of healthy immobility.
Peaceful, quiet, finally.
- But plants do not have all the quiet life! exclaimed the Archangel Raphael.
The wind whips, herbivores graze, rains drown, crush animals and humans without
noticing.
- Yes, but as the plants do not have a nervous system, they do not suffer.
A seraph hurled several vegetable loves bubbles. It was quite poetic. Together,
Raoul and archangels examined them candidly.
- Hey, look, there! exclaimed the archangel Michael. A Sauternes grape seed is
in the process of being fertilized in France. This is the Chateau Yquem, an
excellent vintage. See what vine! It is exposed to a good sun, it has sufficient
moisture, growers maintain it with love. It might be nice to become a small
vine.
Raoul looked tenderly plant would be his parent. He found his future father a
little crooked but friendly. He decided to be grape.
290-HINDU PHILOSOPHY
For each, there is a "Life Book". The Orientals call it "akhashique Archive". On
its pages are written the acts and thoughts of previous lives of each and future
lives needed to appease the karma. The mind can choose to start with this one or
that one, settle debts incurred in a life lived in the seventeenth century
rather than those of his later life. The harm inflicted in the latest
reincarnation is perhaps already compensated by the good done in a previous
life.
EXâralt thesis that Death Unknown by Francia Razorbak.
439
POLICE 291- SHEET
Message to the relevant departments
And now?
Response services concerned
You were right. It is time to intervene.
292 - LINKING

247

A cat in heat meows on the sidewalk at 2 pm 11 am. An insomniac annoyed pushes
an oath, opens his window and throws a slipper towards the feline. The bullet
misses its target and leads on the windshield of a car. The motorist slows sec.
Good for the cat that ran across the street, too bad for the vehicle that was
behind, the driver did not have time to realize what was going on and rammed the
car first.
The shock causes a fuel leak in the tank. Everybody down. While we discuss
findings and insurance, a passer drops a few incandescent ash from his cigarette
into the puddle. The essence ablaze. Both cars explode. A flaming wing flew to
fall into the bin where took refuge pussy. Terrified, she soars into a wall,
knocking in passing an empty tin box where a large rat holed himself. Disturbed
the animal rushes to a wasteland.
Two guys carry it to smash into a basketball hoop in the light of a street lamp.
When one sees the rat, he jumps and sends his shot far over the wall. Continuing
its high-speed trajectory, it bounces against a window while a woman calls her
husband. Under the broken glass, she lets out a screech. Or the husband is air
traffic controller and converse at work. At the cry of terror of his wife
resonant in the earpiece, it has a sideways movement. This is enough to push a
wheel.
It turned out that this dial to indicate an airliner approaching its precise
position relative to the runway.
440
293 -development
2 pm 13 am to my wristwatch. I have said everything.
Oh no! I consult my notes and found that I forgot to indicate how you draw a
circle and its axis without lifting the pen.
Simply fold one corner of the paper. Score a big point on the edge, overlapping
the front side and the battery side. Start from this point to draw a semicircle
on the folded edge. When you reach the limit of the edge of the paper, stop.
There is more to unfold the paper to complete, without lifting the pencil, the
circle around the point for axis. Faced helped stack.
You will have used a foray into another dimension to better achieve something
seemingly impossible. Use another dimension ...
Raoul was right, to solve some problems we must admit that we can go into
another type of space where we all rights. This goes far beyond all mystical.
It's just that expand the mind. Fun to expand the mind. As said Maxime Villain,
the only goal of the writers has to be there, "Make dream further." To dream the
other side of the sheet. Dream on the other side of death. Everything is
possible in writing, why not enjoy it?
Sometimes just by writing or reading, I really enters other dimensions.
I think it is the same with destiny. For they are complete, they must begin in a
universe and end in another.
If I was resting my now familiar questions: "where have I?", "Who am I?", "Where
am I?", I think I might try to respond.
I know I am a human being, living here and now. Why? To participate in the
discovery of thanatonautique. I know that human thought can all fly and pass
through matter at the speed of imagination, is stored in books, any make, any
change, any killing. I know the time, space, knowledge, beauty, everything is
inside. Everything is in the center. Outside, there are only reflections.
I know I'm a corpse on borrowed time.
I reread it, I have said everything. I wrote everything, I can forget
everything.
Thank you to the angels for giving me the time to tell the story
441
the conquest of Ultimate Continent. But should I publish? This contribution will
it be a good or an evil for mankind?

248

Pile, I publish. Face, I do not publish. Constant reflection on the obverse and
reverse. I run. The coin rolls under a chair. On all fours, I look. Pile.
The last sentence again for my book: "Until the last moment, I feared they
prevent me to write this incpt ..."
294 - READ IN DAILY
"Michael Pinson, Amandine Ballus, Rose Finch, the main pioneers of
thanatonautique, died last night in unusual circumstances. A Boeing 787 slammed
into their thanatodrome. The catastrophe would originate human error, falling to
a switchman the sky. Experts are currently looking in the rubble the black box
of the device that will provide further clarification.
Their death would have been instantaneous. Investigators reconstituted at the
time of death Michael Pinson was writing at his desk. All the leaves have been
burnt during the drama, we never know what message the pioneer of
thanatonautique trying to convey.
At the moment, they are surely in this paradise they have contributed so much to
discover. Peace to their souls. "
(On sale next week. A special issue on the life and work of French
Thanatonautes)
295 INDIAN -MYTHOLOGIE
An old Hindu legend ensure that there was a time when all men were gods. But
they abused their divinity so much that Brahma, the lord of the gods, decided to
remove their divine power and hide it in a place where they could not find him.
The difficulty was to find a good hiding place.
Summoned a council to solve this problem, minor gods suggested: "Let us bury
man's divinity in the earth." Brahma replied: "That will not be enough because
the man will dig and find it."
442
The minor gods then proposed. "In this case, let the divinity in the deepest
oceans - No, Brahma said again, because sooner or later man will explore the
depths of the oceans and it is certain that one day he 's will discover and rise
to the surface. "
The lesser gods concluded: "We do not know where to hide the divinity because
there seem to exist on earth or in the sea of place that man can meet one day."
Brahma thought and gave his verdict: "This is what we will do in the divinity of
man: we will hide in the depths of himself because it is the only place where he
will never think to look."
And since then, says the legend, the man went around the Earth. He explored,
climbed, dived and dug without ever finding out what is in it.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
296-MANUAL HISTORY
QUIZ
To prepare the bachelor, test your knowledge by answering thanatonautique in
less than five minutes, watch in hand, the following questions
1. What was the name and surname of the first thanatonaute àavoir officially
passed an ectoplasmic trip?
2. Name the famous words of the American philosopher Woody Allen.
3. How comatiques walls on the Continent Ultimate? (Careful! Walls, no
territories ...)
4. What are the three main techniques for disembodiment?
5. What is Tachyon?
6. What was the first to cross the thanatonaute second comatic wall?
7. Where was built the great thanatodrome of Paris?

249

8. What is the only visible manifestation of a flight ectoplasUric?
9. Where is Paradise?
10. Qu'apporta Freddy Meyer to thanatonautique?
11. On what date took place the battle of Paradise?
443
12. What are the Christian names of the three archangels-judges of our
destinies?
13. How to meditate for a disembodiment?
14. Why is Stefania Chichelli she turned into a rebel?
15. How to protect your silver cord during the flight of his soul?
16. What happens to the ignorant?
17. What happens to the wise?
297-SHEET POLICE
Message to the relevant departments
At your orders. Are ready.
Response services concerned
At work.
298 - TIME TO OBLIVION
History textbook, twelfth grade.
Again I fly to Paradise in the company of my friends. But this time, our
umbilical cords are cut and we know that for this existence, this will be the
last trip.
Rose, Amanda and I have perished in our apartments thanatodrome Buttes-Chaumont,
victims of a crazy Boeing. Villain stumbled home in his kitchen and slammed into
the acute angle of the machine dishwashing. We all took off at the same second.
No appliances, no uniforms, no thrones, without pressing pear. Without shelling
our famous "six ... five ... four ... three ... two ... one. Takeoff".
We are no longer Thanatonautes. We are the dead of the day, still happy to be
together for this final journey.
We cross at full speed the solar system and its periphery. We hover almost
before spinning to the center of the galaxy.
444
We no longer feel any apprehension at the gates of death. On the Ultimate
Continent, we are now with us. We are so often excursionné, like other PalavaslesFlots or Trouville.
I do not pay attention to the white satin woman winks skeletal mask. Long ago
that I no longer dread his empty eye sockets and his toothless grin.
We go through all the colors of an ordinary death. Blue, black, red, orange,
yellow, green, white. It seems, however, that high place it is pressed to see
us. We rush among the crowd of waiting dead as if we were still Thanatonautes.
Soon we arrive at the mountain of light. We did not make a mistake. The
archangels are there waiting for us. To better talk to us, they interrupt the
river of the dead, regardless of protests pressed ectoplasm.
Saint Pierre seems heartbroken. As usual, it is he who is responsible for
explanations. Since the earliest times, there has always been wanting to explore
the Thanatonautes Ultimate Continent. Angels greet their rare visitors with
kindness and gladly entrusted to them the mysteries of Paradise. In return, some
wanted to convey these "revelations" to other humans. Abraham, Jesus, Buddha,
Mohammed, and many others have given their testimony. Thus were born the Bible,

250

the Tibetan Book of the Dead, the Gospel, the Qur'an, the Chinese Tao-teking ... and all the sacred books of the world.
Angels had these human Great Initiates and these had not proved ungrateful. They
had sought to take advantage of their knowledge all generations to come so that
they are progressing, getting better and moving faster towards the pure state of
mind. The Great Initiates had thus contributed and to the men and heaven.
However, they had surrounded their "revelations" of mystery, mysticism, hermetic
symbols. They had hidden them under a yoke of legends and strange mythologies.
And we, what had we done? We had broken the secret, we were betrayed and at the
same time, our fellow strayed and caused confusion on Earth.
Angels have always been friends to the Great Initiates because, until we were
all wise. We, we were unconscious. We learned all the meaning of life and the
meaning of death. We had to spread indiscriminately. Us
445
had invited anyone to follow us. We brought chaos of tourists where the mystery
must remain mystery and secrecy, secret.
"The wise man seeks truth, the fool has already found."
The archangel Gabriel annoyed tells us about our "work". Battles for possession
of Paradise, billboards in the corridors of death, an interview with a deadly
published in the mainstream press, the karmographes galore ... Ah! disorders
that! It was really high time to put an end to our stupid actions.
- All right, Rose said. We will come back down to Earth and undo everything we
did!
- More trouble, Satan sneers. We no longer need you down. We put the time, but
we finally decided to leave the police angels intervene. Look at what is
happening now.
A cherub casts images bubbles. Thanatodromes of large and small, formal and
informal, explode, struck by lightning. Takeoff thrones lie disarticulated. The
thanatonautique the history textbooks disintegrate into dust. The Death Museum
of the Smithsonian Institute in Washington is in flames, the store of my mother.
The ectoplasmic commercials dissolve before our eyes. A typhoon passes over the
lower world, sweeping in passing everything, from near or far,
respect to thanatonautique, erasing forever the human spirit. All the work of
our previous life returns to nothingness.
- You want to play to the gods ton Archangel Gabriel. But people must understand
the truth for themselves. The sacred knowledge can not be popularized.
I suddenly wondered
- That's why you've already killed Raoul?
- Yes. He was the first and most dangerous of you.
Wrath earns up to a charming seraph.
- Still a little and with your mania for putting the light where darkness must
reign, there would have been streetlights and prostitutes on the way to
reincarnation.
Timidly, I try to defend ourselves
- We are but mere humans like all humans and we make mistakes.
No, scolds the archangel Michael. You are Great Initiates.
446
Instead of enjoying the silence, you spread the meaning of life and thus
annihilated the same engine of existence: the curiosity, the desire to learn, to
walk the path of knowledge.
- But that's what Raoul wanted!
- And this is what earned him specifically to be initiated. But our knowledge
does not suffer from being overused. Even members of the most outlandish sects,
even the enlightened one day have always understood that they had to keep quiet
and be expressed through metaphors. But you thought smarter than others. You
wanted to popularize the "death" you have ruined everything ...

251

Archangels resume the litany of our faults.
- You've drawn and sold maps of Paradise, announcement of a heartbroken air the
Archangel Raphael.
- You have published ... Tourist manuals. developed machinery to die. repeated
our words.
- You have
- You have
- You have raised thousands of lost souls encouraging suicide.
- You look at us without fear.
- We miss you respect.
- You consider us as your servants and not as masters.
The departed awaiting trial continually grow impatient to be interested in the
scene. Since all the while they are here, they have never seen archangels lose
their imperturbability to excite and cons of ectoplasm poor.
- Traitors, you are traitors!
A question bothering me since the beginning of these reprimands. I interrupt to
ask it.
- Okay, but in this case, why did you let him?
Some angels displayed a sardonic expression. Perhaps are these the "celestial
police" who intervened against us. Apparently, those wanted to put us out of
harm's way from the start. It is the others who get upset now, for permission to
continue.
The archangel Gabriel did not lead off.
- We wanted to know how far you dare go.
- We too sometimes feel curiosity towards humans, adds Michael the archangel,
shameful. They sometimes mind if
447
crooked ... For the father of Raoul, there had been previous councils. With his
thesis that unknown Death, he had crossed the line. Its publication would have
lifted too many sails.
- Then, when his son took over, we wondered what to do with these Thanatonautes
who regarded the discovery of the dead as a sport. There was the curious like
me, so yes supporters. In front, there were supporters and not "heavenly policy"
that kept sounding the alarm. However, above, in their majority, seventy-two
white angels and their main seventy-two double black felt they should wait and
see. They advised to lower angels, our police, do not panic. The
thanatonautique, we thought, to self-destruct itself. Ordinary humans would be
unable to focus enough to carry a crucial experience. But you were not ordinary
human. You came to us and deserve and to become Great Initiates. Only after you
have caused too much damage. Ah! These ectoplasmic travel agencies ... Even with
the best will, the angels could no longer tolerate such incursions into their
secret world. No more than men claiming: "I know everything." You should
meditate biblical allegory of Adam and the apple of knowledge. Never reach
absolute knowledge, only move towards her ...
- As for you, in any case, the joke is over, slice the Archangel Raphael. The
thanatonautique died at the same time as you.
- But it's too late, lamented Rose. Too many people have read our books. The
concern of karma entered manners of all.
The archangel Gabriel interrupts a careless gesture.
- You commit sin again to doubt our power, which we have already sent a flood
drowning all the sins of mankind. After all these images we have shown you, you
always think us incapable of implementing oblivion remembered? In our memories?
- No one will remember your actions, said St. Peter. You will not be another
wave of these legends which no one really believes, like the Loch Ness monster,
the yeti of the Himalayas or the Bermuda Triangle. Probably evoke the myths
Thanatonautes but you hear me, nobody will think that thanatonautique actually
existed. I make you
448

252

solemn oath. It will only be a second thought in the mind
particularly sensitive people.
- And Stefania? I asked.
- Stefania forget too. But unlike you, she will
spared because she tried to continue the work of Satan in times
where with all these vapid, these nice and superstitious, he had
really need a helping hand.
Satan acquiesce, content.
Mothers agonize
- And Freddy Junior?
- And Burnet?
- They forget too. Do not dread anything for them. They will
not punished for the sins of their parents.
299-Mesopotamian Mythology
"Six days and seven nights passed storms of the flood still blowing from the
south storms covered the country. On the seventh day of the flood Storms Who Had
such an army massacred while on their way diminished in intensity. The sea
calmed the wind s 'The clamor subsided the flood was silent. J e looked at the
sky, silence reigned. I saw the clay reverted Men stalls waters were a roof. I
opened a small window. The light fell on my face, I knelt and I started crying.
That was all over. "
Epic Oum Napishtim, also called ... Noah in the Bible.
Extract from the thesis that Death Unknown, by Francis Razorbak.
449
300-JEWISH MYTHOLOGIE
According to Kabbalah, the fetus is a great sage. Already in the womb of his
mother, he knows all the secrets of the world. But just before his birth, an
angel descends to silence. It applies a finger on his lips and said "shhh" ...
The fetus therefore forget everything. Only his unconscious that vaguely
remembers the "big secret." It is because of this angelic contact we have a
depression under the nose: "The gutter lip."
301- THE SOLUTION
Freddy Meyer, Working notes.
We are still before the light dc mountain.
No angel considering taking our defense, Rose, Amanda, and I Villain. All not
emit a steady light indicating their final and binding resolution. The archangel
Gabriel speaks again.
- Later yet, in a very long time, thousands of years perhaps, other Great
Initiates arise here, real insiders because we will never accept more tourists.
We will tell them your adventure and slowly, very slowly, they will discover
your exploits.
Small consolation! I do not know when we will write us another Odyssey, a Bible,
a novel, who knows what! Raoul was right to think that all these so-called
"mythologies" hiding the truth.
- What will you do with us? Amandine is concerned.
- You follow the common path. Like all other deaths that do not have 600 points,
you will be reincarnated and, of course, your reincarnation will remember
nothing of your past life.
In my head, I hammer me: "I was thanatonaute I was thanatonaute I was
thanatonaute." If, 'permeates my soul of this insurance that the thanatonautique
really existed and that I've been a precursor, perhaps she still remembered by

253

some in his next incarnation.
- Move, ordered the archangel Gabriel. You wanted to know what hides the
mountain light of the judgment, is not it?
He smiles.
450
- A few more steps and you will know.
- You finally agree to show us the background of Paradise? Rose is surprised,
delighted.
- Of course, since you will return more on Earth atous winds proclaim what you
have seen.
My wife ahead like a dream. Even in this last moment, the astronomer is happy to
satisfy his curiosity. It runs almost to discover what there is on the other
side of the black hole.
- To you, Michael.
- I'm not on trial?
- No judgment for the Great Initiates. I have already explained àRaoul. But
trust us. You are still young. You have known that hundred fifty-three human
forms. We have provided for you a nice little reincarnation.
I approach. Rose sees me with anxiety.
- You and me against all the fools, I send forth telepathically.
She rushes and ectoplasm long kiss my mouth. My lips feel nothing but my soul is
moved.
- Together, 'she repeated.
In my turn, I cross the mountain of light and what I see behind is really
wondrous. This is beyond anything we had seen in all other areas of Paradise.
Suddenly, I understand everything. As we were off the mark. Nobody would have
expected that, necessarily. Fabulous, is simply fabulous.
I see the bottom of the bottom of the bottom of the black hole and I'm just
flabbergasted. It is not at all what I thought. I tremble with emotion. Now I
know.


254

